Get to Know UT Tyler
What to Know About a Great Texas University
The University of Texas at Tyler is part of the prestigious University of Texas System that includes 13 institutions located throughout the state. Founded in 1971, UT Tyler today enrolls 10,000 students and consists of five colleges and three schools. Read about UT Tyler's 50th anniversary. 

Our beautiful Tyler campus features more than 200 acres nestled along a lake and surrounded by thick pine and oak forests, providing a picturesque location for study and recreation. We also offer instructional sites at The University of Texas Health Science Center at Tyler and in Palestine, Longview and Houston.

------------------------------------------------------------

Question: Where is UT Tyler located?
Answer: UT Tyler is located at 3900 University Blvd, Tyler, TX 75799. Here's the location on Google Maps:
<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d2881.0561191117126!2d-95.25286244795798!3d32.31480757299257!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x8649cd17e83f9399%3A0xb0ab28a921956fd6!2sThe%20University%20of%20Texas%20at%20Tyler!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1709406946624!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="175" height="175" style="border-radius: 15px;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

--------------------------------------------------------------

Question: What courses do you offer?
Answer: Can you be more specific on what degree you are pursuing?

--------------------------------------------------------------

Question: Can you show me the Campus Map?
Answer: Here's the Campus Map:

https://www.uttyler.edu/maps/files/2022/uttyler-campus-map-letter-20221010.pdf

---------------------------------------------------------------

Question: What are UT Tyler's Socials/Social Media/Social Links?
Question: Social Media
Answer: These are UT Tyler's Social Media Accounts:

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/uttyler
Twitter: https://twitter.com/UTTyler
YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/user/go2uttyler
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/uttyler/

----------------------------------------------------------------

Question: Does UT Tyler have a Facebook?

Answer: Yes they do!
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/uttyler

Question: Does UT Tyler have a Twitter/X?

Answer: Yes they do!
Twitter: https://twitter.com/UTTyler

Question: Does UT Tyler have a Youtube?

Answer: Yes they do!
YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/user/go2uttyler

Question: Does UT Tyler have an Instagram?

Answer: Yes they do!
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/uttyler/

----------------------------------------------------------------

Undergraduate and Graduate Contacts:

Undergraduate Admissions
3900 University Blvd.
Tyler, Tx 75799
<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d2881.0561191117126!2d-95.25286244795798!3d32.31480757299257!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x8649cd17e83f9399%3A0xb0ab28a921956fd6!2sThe%20University%20of%20Texas%20at%20Tyler!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1709406946624!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="175" height="175" style="border-radius: 15px;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

Office Hours:
M-F 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.

800 UT TYLER
Ph: 903.566.7180
Fx: 903.566.7183
<a href="mailto:enroll@uttyler.edu">enroll@uttyler.edu</a>

Graduate Admissions
3900 University Blvd.
Tyler, Tx 75799
<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d2881.0561191117126!2d-95.25286244795798!3d32.31480757299257!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x8649cd17e83f9399%3A0xb0ab28a921956fd6!2sThe%20University%20of%20Texas%20at%20Tyler!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1709406946624!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="175" height="175" style="border-radius: 15px;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

Office Hours:
M-F 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.

Ph: 903.566.7457
<a href="mailto:ogs@uttyler.edu">ogs@uttyler.edu</a>

----------------------------------------------------------------

How do I get to Canvas?

Here is the link to the Canvas Login Page:
http://uttyler.instructure.com/login/saml

------------------------------------------------------------------

How do I get to myUTTyler?

Here is the link to the myUTTyler page:
https://my.uttyler.edu/

------------------------------------------------------------------

With more than 80 bachelor's, master's and doctoral degree programs offered, UT Tyler provides a wealth of learning opportunities and dynamic programs.

Most UT Tyler classes are taught by professors, not teaching assistants, and our average student-professor ratio of 22:1 is a definite advantage over larger, less intimate campuses. Our learning environment is truly student-centered: We offer private university quality at affordable public university prices.

We encourage you to visit campus and see for yourself why UT Tyler is where you’ll feel at home—and find your best path.

UT Tyler students represent 167 Texas counties, 45 states and 60+ nations.

UT Tyler is a young, fast-growing university offering outstanding facilities such as the renowned R. Don Cowan Fine and Performing Arts Center, a centerpiece of cultural entertainment in the East Texas region, and the Herrington Patriot Center, our state-of-the-art fitness center.

Mechanical Engineering
The University of Texas at Tyler
The University of Texas at Tyler Department of Mechanical Engineering provides a student-focused, hands-on approach to engineering education, producing graduates who are highly sought after by employers and graduate schools across the nation.

Mechanical engineers represent one of the broadest of engineering disciplines, engaging in a variety of industrial and business operations, from large corporations and government organizations to small consulting firms.

As a UT Tyler mechanical engineering graduate you will be well equipped to work in areas of high demand, such as computer-aided design and analysis, thermal and fluid systems, manufacturing processes and control, bioengineering and aerospace systems and instrumentation.

The bachelor of science degree program provides instruction in both mechanical engineering theory and practice through a combination of classroom instruction and hands-on lab experiences.
The UT Tyler master of science degree program in mechanical engineering is broad-based, allowing students to develop expertise in a number of areas, including design, thermal/fluid sciences, solid mechanics and mechanical control and instrumentation.
At UT Tyler you will learn from a faculty of mechanical engineering experts who are devoted to student success and involve both undergraduates and graduates in research, conducted in state-of-the-art facilities.

You also will gain valuable experiences through membership in student chapters of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME); the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE); and the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE).

Fast Facts
UT Tyler at a Glance
The University of Texas at Tyler is a centerpiece for learning, culture and natural beauty in East Texas, located midway between Dallas and Shreveport, Louisiana. Founded in 1971, UT Tyler is one of the fastest-growing universities in the renowned University of Texas System. Read about UT Tyler's 50th anniversary.

----------------------------------------------------------------

UT Tyler is home to five academic colleges and three schools:

Ben and Maytee Fisch College of Pharmacy
College Arts and Sciences
College of Education and Psychology
College of Engineering
Soules College of Business
School of Health Professions
School of Medicine
School of Nursing

------------------------------------------------------------------

Campus

Tyler Main Campus: Nearly 259 acres nestled in the beautiful pine and oak forests of East Texas. Key facilities include the Herrington Patriot Center, our state-of-the-art fitness center with gymnasium that seats 2,000, and the R. Don Cowan Performing Arts Center that is a cultural attraction for the entire region.

Instructional Sites

Palestine: Students prepare for a career in nursing using the latest simulated patient technology.
Longview: Students prepare for a career in nursing using the latest simulated patient technology.
Houston Engineering Center is offered in partnership with Houston Community College (HCC) to provide a seamless pathway to a four-year degree in civil, electrical or mechanical engineering. Students can take lower-division courses at HCC and upper-division courses from UT Tyler at the Houston Engineering Center, located on the HCC Alief-Hayes Road Campus.
The University of Texas Health Science Center at Tyler
School of Health Professions
School of Medical Biological Sciences 
Key Achievements

Our graduates achieve outstanding pass rates on state licensure exams:
Nursing: 87%
Teacher Education: 96.7%
One of the only universities in the country to offer a bachelor’s degree in human resource development.
Degrees Offered

Undergraduate Bachelor’s Degrees: 49
Graduate Master’s Degrees: 37
Doctoral Degrees: 6
Accreditations

Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC)
Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education
American Chemical Society (ACS)
Association of Technology, Management and Applied Engineering (ATMAE)
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business International (AACSB)
Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) – BSN, MSN
Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) – DNP
Council for Accreditation of Counseling & Related Educational Programs (CACREP)
Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology ABET – Engineering
Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology ABET – Construction Management
Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) of the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA)
National Association of Schools of Music (NASM)
Texas Board of Nursing

Graduate Programs
Benefit from Prestigious Degree Programs Designed for Working Professionals
Master’s degrees from The University of Texas at Tyler are highly valued throughout Texas, nationally and beyond. Your graduate degree from the renowned University of Texas System will be recognized and respected worldwide. Earning your degree will be well within reach: We offer options for convenient, accessible and affordable learning for today’s busy professionals.

Choose from more than 40 outstanding master’s degree programs and graduate certificates. Many degrees are available entirely online. Other programs offer a hybrid format, combining online study and on-campus courses held in the evenings or on weekends. All courses are taught by top-quality professors who are fully committed to helping you achieve your learning goals to move ahead in a current or new career.

Opt to earn your graduate degree in programs with thesis or non-thesis options.
Benefit from UT Tyler’s graduate programs that are research-focused, enabling you to work alongside faculty for unmatched learning and discovery—opportunities typically available only at small, private universities.
Earn your graduate degree at UT Tyler to excel in your field and be job-ready to step into leadership roles to advance your company, serve communities and contribute to the greater good. Invest in graduate programs that are affordable and ensure you’ll receive a quality education.

President of UT Tyler is Dr. Kirk Calhoun

Academics
Outstanding Degree Programs Prepare You for Career and Lifelong Success
The University of Texas at Tyler offers more than 80 undergraduate, graduate and doctoral degree programs. Our academic programs blend online and on-campus learning.

UT Tyler's average student-faculty ratio of 22:1 puts you in touch with a faculty of experts personally focused on your education and career success. We balance rigorous learning with nurturing support to promote student confidence, and connect you with an array of opportunities to build experience beyond the classroom.

Part of the prestigious University of Texas System, UT Tyler ranks among the highest in the system for students graduating on time, and our students often receive job offers before they graduate. Employers confirm that UT Tyler graduates are among the very best produced by any public university in Texas.

UT Tyler is one of Texas’ fastest-growing universities and values solid traditions of learning and results-driven research.
The university is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools to award bachelor’s, master's and doctoral degrees.
One in five UT Tyler graduates pursue graduate studies or attend professional school.
Our graduates often outperform graduates from all other Texas public universities. Our outstanding pass rates on state licensure and certification exams include:
Nursing - 94.9%
Education - 97.2%

College of Arts and Sciences
The University of Texas at Tyler
The College of Arts and Sciences at The University of Texas at Tyler offers diverse academic programs that link learning to life through the spirit of discovery.

The faculty and staff are committed to that spirit of discovery, providing first-class instruction and scholarship in the humanities, sciences, arts and social sciences.

Eighteen baccalaureate majors are offered, ranging from traditional humanities and sciences to the social sciences. You also can choose from several pre-professional programs, including pre-law, pre-theology, pre-med and pre-dental tracks.

The college offers 11 master's degrees.

At UT Tyler, classroom learning in the arts and sciences is enhanced by extra- and co-curricular activities and travel study programs. Many opportunities exist for students to explore their personal interests by working with faculty members on individual projects.

Explore our outstanding programs and activities, and choose to become a part of the UT Tyler College of Arts and Sciences – where the spirit of discovery links learning to life.

College of Education and Psychology
Be an Architect of Human Potential
Welcome to the College of Education and Psychology at The University of Texas at Tyler. We maximize human potential, by inspiring personal and professional growth. It is the core purpose of the College to prepare competent, caring, and qualified professionals in the fields of education, psychology and counseling and to advance the knowledge base in our respective disciplines.

We are a diverse college, with programs in education and psychology at the undergraduate and graduate levels that prepare graduates for positions in schools, agencies and businesses, and for further graduate study. We offer three bachelor's degrees, eight master's degrees, a post-master's superintendent's certification program, and a post-baccalaureate teacher certification program.

Close working relationships with schools and agencies in the East Texas region provide numerous opportunities for faculty and students to engage in service and research and to find quality placements in internships and practica.

Through our Ingenuity Center and research labs, we provide additional research and service opportunities for our students and for schools and agencies in the region. The University of Texas at Tyler College of Education and Psychology is a dynamic college within a young, growing university.

We invite further inquiry into our college through this website and encourage you to contact us directly for additional information about programs and services within the College of Education and Psychology.

The Ben and Maytee Fisch College of Pharmacy
The University of Texas at Tyler
The University of Texas at Tyler Ben and Maytee Fisch College of Pharmacy offers the Doctor of Pharmacy curriculum in a student-centered, innovative format that will prepare you to become an exceptional pharmacist. The UT Tyler Pharm.D. program is a four-year professional degree program and requires at least two years of prerequisite coursework.

As a UT Tyler student pharmacist, you will benefit from a curriculum that utilizes team-based learning (TBL) in many courses. You will be an active participant in your learning process with guidance from a faculty of experts devoted to your success. Student pharmacists attend classes in W.T. Brookshire Hall, a first-class facility specifically designed for interactive learning and easy access to faculty.

A 100% reduction in tuition and fees is available to qualifying incoming and current students. Learn More.

Soules College of Business
The University of Texas at Tyler
Choose Your Path

For some, taking initiative and motivating people is rewarding. Maybe you find excitement in the idea of trading stocks or making investments? Or perhaps developing a marketing plan and carrying out projects gets you motivated. You choose your path and our AACSB-accredited College of Business will help you get there. The Soules College of Business also prepares students for careers in computer science, human resource development and technology.

Online MBA is ranked #9 Best Online MBA Program in Texas for 2017.
Online MBA is ranked in the Top 100 in 2021 US World and News Report Best College Guide
Online MBA is ranked in #46 in 2023 Fortune Magazine for Best Online Program
MAcc program ranked #10 among Most Affordable Graduate Accounting Programs. 
Online MS in Human Resource Development ranked #12 in best online MS in HRD programs. 
The Soules College of Business internship program gives students hands-on experience and often turns into full-time employment opportunities.
Student organizations connect students to the college, university and community.

The Graduate School
Top-Quality Master’s and PhD Programs from UT Tyler
Welcome to The Graduate School at The University of Texas at Tyler. Here you will find a committed community of faculty and students involved in both coursework and research that will enhance your skills in the marketplace, prepare you for new careers and challenges, contribute to your personal sense of accomplishment and growth, and spark your desire to discover. UT Tyler provides its graduate students with opportunities one would only expect at a small private university but without private university tuition expenses.

UT Tyler offers over 40 graduate degree and certificate programs, all designed with the adult learner in mind. Most of our programs are available on a full or part-time basis, and evening courses are available for the convenience of working professionals. We also offer several affordable online graduate degree programs for even greater flexibility.

Mission: The Graduate School provides support and resources to retain and promote research, scholastic achievement, and graduation which serves the East Texas community, the state of Texas, and the world.

To fulfill this mission, we:

Partner with the Research office to provide opportunities for innovative research.

Provide professional development relevant to post-graduate topics.

Coordinate student experiences through campus events and organizations such as Graduate Student Association.

Support scholastic achievement and timely completion of graduate degrees.

Vision: The Graduate School at UT Tyler is committed to program integrity, student success and retention in scholarship, research, and graduate degree programs.

To fulfill this vision, we:

Encourage diversity to enhance the inclusivity with the university community.
Manage the appropriate use of university resources to support graduate students, initiatives, and programs.
Establish, in partnership with the Graduate Council, university graduate policies, standards and procedures that define best practices for graduate programs.
Promote excellence in graduate education through creativity, innovation, and diligence.

The University College
UT Tyler’s Undergraduate Studies division provides comprehensive support to the undergraduate community of students, faculty, and staff. Services and support offered to undergraduate students include: Advising, Tutoring, Supplemental Instruction, Success Seminars, 24/7 Online Tutoring, Patriot Principles for Academic Excellence, and specific student population supports such as First-Generation and Foster Care Advocacy. In addition, Undergraduate Studies supports future Patriots through our work with dual credit and collaboratively developing transfer pathways with Texas community colleges.

Undergraduate Studies also serve academic departments offering degree programs as they work to improve student achievement metrics such as strengthening students’ sense of belonging, retention, and, ultimately, graduation rates. These efforts occur through initiatives and support such as first-semester seminars, Academic Success Liaisons, faculty development through the Center for Excellence in Teaching & Learning (CETL) and Association of College and University Educators (ACUE) courses, curricular analytics projects, undergraduate curriculum and policies, and more. As part of this work, Undergraduate Studies staff also work closely with other UT Tyler divisions, such as Enrollment Management and Student Success (Student Affairs), to provide wrap-around support, including financial aid and scholarships, to ensure the success of UT Tyler undergraduates.

The Undergraduate Studies division is committed to fulfilling UT Tyler’s mission and vision through our collective values of servant leadership, excellence, accountability, and collaboratively working with all stakeholders (diversity). Specifically, the division of Undergraduate Studies aligns with the Strategic Plan priorities to Enrich the Student Experience, Elevate Economic Opportunity and Social Mobility for Our Students, and Advance Excellence in Teaching, Research, and Healthcare.

Undergraduate Studies staff are honored to serve UT Tyler’s undergraduate students and the faculty and staff that support them.

Undergraduate Programs
Earn Your Bachelor’s Degree From a Renowned Texas University: Study at Dynamic, Student-Focused UT Tyler
Get an exceptional education and a strong start on your bright future at The University of Texas at Tyler. Choose from more than 40 undergraduate programs and learn with outstanding scholars and teachers who balance rigorous classroom learning with nurturing, one-on-one support. Our goal is to build your skills, talents and confidence for lifelong success.

A young campus, UT Tyler offers an unmatched place to learn and study, with the most modern buildings and state-of-the art tools and technology throughout our labs and classrooms.

Your education at UT Tyler offers private school quality at affordable public university prices. Your degree is valued throughout Texas and beyond. Many of our graduating seniors have job offers before graduation. One out of five UT Tyler graduates go on to graduate programs or professional schools.

Be fully prepared for a competitive job market: UT Tyler graduates often outperform graduates from all other Texas universities on state licensing exams in education, engineering and nursing.
Benefit from a range of student success programs, plus personalized attention and support from UT Tyler faculty and staff.
Enjoy learning and living in the heart of a beautiful East Texas landscape. The UT Tyler campus is set along Lake Harvey and surrounded by pine forests and wooded trails.
Take advantage of classes also available at UT Tyler’s facilities in Longview, Palestine and Houston, or choose online or hybrid format classes.

Bachelor of Applied Arts and Sciences Degree
Earn Your BAAS 100% Online*
The BAAS degree program is a degree specifically for students looking to finish their 4-year degree in an academic environment that recognizes the importance of balancing family, work, and other commitments. The 100%* online format of the BAAS program is convenient, affordable, and accessible for working adults without compromising the quality and rigor of a UT Tyler degree.

The flexible degree plan utilizes transfer credit from community colleges and other universities to provide a shorter route to completing a bachelor's degree than many traditional programs. All students must have 60 hours of transferable credit** accepted at UT Tyler OR successful completion of an AA, AS or AAT to be eligible for the program. Students applying to the program on transferable credit should know that which credits (earned at other institutions) transfer depends on official transcript evaluation by the Registrar's Office upon application.

The courses in the BAAS Professional Core and the Thematic Concentrations are offered online, in two 7-week terms per semester. This gives ease to our students to balance life and school, while still taking full-time hours.

We are happy to announce that the required BAAS curriculum (33 credits) has a flat rate of $9,900. If you enter needing more than the required 33 credits for the program, your first 33 credits will be offered at the discounted rate. So, you will start to save immediately! 

Bachelor’s in Applied Arts and Sciences: Convenient. Job-Ready

With our BAAS high-demand Thematic Concentrations, you can tailor your degree to meet your professional goals. UT Tyler currently offers the following Thematic Concentrations:

Business Occupations - Soules College of Business: Designed to provide general business knowledge for individuals interested in business careers.  
 
Healthcare Management - Designed to provide knowledge for individuals looking to expand their careers into management in the healthcare field.

Health Occupations - Designed for professionals in a healthcare field to facilitate career advancement or prepare for graduate professional programs.

Human Behavior - Department of Psychology and Counseling: Trains students to understand, critically examine, and apply information about human thought, feeling, and behavior.

General Studies - Well-suited for students interested in studying a specific topic from multiple perspectives.

For details of all the concentrations' required courses, please see the Degree Plan tab on the navigation bar. For an example of how a concentration (Business Occupations) breaks down into 8 semesters, please click here. 

Pre-Professional Programs
The University of Texas at Tyler
The University of Texas at Tyler College of Arts and Sciences offers several tracks that qualify students for admission to professional schools, including medical, dental, pharmacy and law school.

Our outstanding academic programs in the arts and sciences will prepare you for professional school success. You'll also receive excellent advising to help you make crucial choices regarding your major, extra-curricular activities, the professional school application process and choice of professional school.

Follow these links for information about each pre-professional program at UT Tyler:

Pre-Chiropractic
Pre-Dental
Pre-Law
Pre-Medical
Pre-Occupational Therapy
Pre-Optometry
Pre-Pharmacy
Pre-Physician Assistant
Pre-Physical Therapy
Podiatric Medicine
Pre-Theology
Pre-Veterinary

Certificate and Certification Preparation Programs
Enhance Your Career Skills With Specialized Training
UT Tyler offers several post-baccalaureate certificate programs. These programs are not part of a degree; however, coursework may be counted toward a degree with the approval of the college in which they are housed. We also offer a number of initial certifications for educators.

Certificate programs are narrower in their focus than degrees and provide preparation in a specific field. The certificate is not the equivalent of a license or certification required for practice in the professions or to teach.

Certificate/certificate preparation programs are not eligible for financial aid.

Post-Baccalaureate Certificates

Completion of a certificate program is noted on transcripts. No diplomas are awarded by the University. Admission and complete requirements for certificates are described in the catalog.  

Healthcare Data Analytics Certificate Program
Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certificate
Nursing Informatics, Quality & Safety Certificate
Organizational Development and Leadership Certification Program
Supply Chain Management Certificate
Talent Development and Workplace Learning Certificate
Post-Master's Certificates

Nursing Administration Certificate (effective Fall 2023, this will change to a post-baccalaureate certificate program)
Nursing Education Certificate (effective Fall 2023, this will change to a post-baccalaureate certificate program)
Nurse Practitioner Certificate
Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Certificate
Certification Preparation Programs

Superintendent
Reading Specialist
Integrated Certificates

Students admitted to a UT Tyler graduate program may be eligible to earn the following certificates along with their degree, with advisor approval. These certificates are not available as stand-alone certificates; they must be earned in conjunction with a UT Tyler graduate degree program. Courses completed for these certificates will be listed as a milestone on an official university transcript and a certificate of completion will be awarded by the Department.

Accounting Data Analytics Certificate
Cybersecurity Certificate 
Data Analytics Certificate  
Certificate of Specialization in Design and Mechanics
Certificate of Specialization in Systems and Control
Certificate of Specialization in Thermal-Fluid Systems
Admission Requirements

Integrated Certificate students must be admitted to a UT Tyler graduate program.

Doctoral Degree Programs
Advance Your Career With a Doctoral Degree
UT Tyler offers the following five doctoral degree programs, all designed with the adult learner in mind. 

PhD, Human Resource Development
PhD, Nursing
DNP, Doctor of Nursing Practice
PharmD, Doctor of Pharmacy
PhD, Clinical Psychology
EdD, School Improvement
UT Tyler has been recognized as a doctoral university, earning the R2 Designation from the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education®. 

The Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education designated UT Tyler as an R2 institution, meaning that the university has very high research activity and the highest in East Texas.

The College of Education and Psychology offers an EdD in School Improvement and a PhD in Clinical Psychology. The EdD in School Improvement, offered online, provides educators an opportunity to develop a deeper understanding of change theory, foundations of school improvement, and issues of diversity. The PhD in Clinical Psychology, offered on-campus, is a scientist-practitioner based program which provides high quality academic, research, and clinical training with under-served populations.

The School of Nursing offers a PhD in Nursing and the Doctor of Nursing Practice.  The PhD in Nursing, offered online, prepares nursing leaders for careers in education and research with an emphasis in health priorities applicable nationally and internationally. The Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP), offered primarily online, prepares nurse leaders to address complex issues in a variety of health settings.

The Soules College of Business offers the PhD in human resource development. The PhD in HRD, offered in an executive format, prepares researchers and practitioner leaders for a rapidly changing and culturally diverse global workforce. 

The Ben and Maytee Fisch College of Pharmacy offers the Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD). The Pharm D, offered on-campus, provides students with a team-based learning environment to provide pharmacy care to patients of all ages and engage in rapidly expanding healthcare. 

 

Doctoral Admissions

Applicants for admission to a doctoral program at UT Tyler must hold a baccalaureate and a master’s degree from an accredited institution, complete an application for the program, and submit official GRE/GMAT scores (if required) and official transcripts showing proof of baccalaureate and a master’s degree. Clinical Psychology Ph.D. applicants may apply with or without a master’s degree. UT Tyler transcripts need not be forwarded by the applicant.

In addition to program admission requirements, consideration for admission is also given to one or more of the following: the applicant’s demonstrated commitment to his or her chosen field of study, socioeconomic background, multilingual proficiency, geographic region of residence, first generation of family to graduate from an undergraduate program, and involvement and level of responsibility in other matters including extracurricular activities, employment, community service, or family responsibility of raising children.

Because some programs accept only a limited number of students or do not have the faculty or facilities to accommodate a student’s particular area of study, some applicants who exceed minimum requirements may not be accepted.

Executive format and 100% online programs are not open to students on an F-1 visa.

More information regarding Graduate School admissions.

UT Excellence in an Online Degree
Whether you're looking to earn a degree or just take a course or two, UT Tyler Online is here to help you reach your educational goals. Choose from a variety of affordable, 100% fully online programs to advance your education or enhance your career skills. UT Tyler offers undergraduate, graduate and certificate programs that are authorized in all 50 states to help supplement your current program or to help you learn the latest in your chosen field.

APPLIED ARTS & SCIENCES (BAAS)
CRIMINAL JUSTICE MS
CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTION MEd
CYBERSECURITY & DATA ANALYTICS MS
EDUCATIONAL LEADERSHIP MEd
ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP MS
ENGLISH MA
HEALTH ADMINISTRATION MHA
HEALTH SCIENCES MS
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT BS
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT MS
INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT MS
KINESIOLOGY MS
MBA
MBA (ACCELERATED)
NURSE PRACTITIONER MSN
NURSING ADMINISTRATION MSN
NURSING EDUCATION MSN
NURSING INFORMATICS, QUALITY & SAFETY MSN
NURSING MSN-MBA
NURSING PhD
NURSING PSYCHIATRIC MENTAL HEALTH PRACTITIONER MSN
NURSING RN-BSN
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION MPA
PUBLIC HEALTH MPH
READING MEd
SCHOOL COUNSELING MA
SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT EdD
SPECIAL EDUCATION MEd

UT Tyler Honors College
An Engaged Community for Intellectual Curiosity and Academic Opportunity
The UT Tyler Honors College provides specialized content and programming for high-achieving and intellectually curious students at our university. Academically, the Honors College emphasizes small, unique courses with engaged faculty and rigorous undergraduate research. The Honors College is made up of a diverse, motivated community of students that reflect the population and people of the East Texas region. We seek out and encourage intellectual curiosity, academic opportunity, and community engagement.

Students who complete the Honors College will earn a special Honors designation on their final transcript. This distinction will reflect each student's enriched studies and accomplishments as a UT Tyler undergraduate. Because of their diverse and enhanced collegiate experience, graduates of the Honors College are among the most sought-after by employers and graduate schools.

The UT Tyler Honors College is open to students from all majors. If you are a high school senior interested in the Honors Program, please see the incoming freshmen application under the "Apply" tab on the left. If you are a current UT Tyler student interested in the Honors Program, please see the current student application, and if you are a transfer student, please see the transfer student application.

Please explore the links to the left to learn more about the Honors College at the University of Texas at Tyler.

If you have questions, please see the FAQ or contact the Honors Coordinator at LDykes@uttyler.edu.

Parents
Welcome to The University of Texas at Tyler
We know that choosing a college is a big decision. If you’re considering UT Tyler, you and your child have a lot of questions about academics, campus life, financing your education and more. You’ll find answers through our FAQs and other parent resource links on this page. Or, please contact us: Our admission counselors are available to help by phone at 903.566.7203 or email.

At UT Tyler, you can be confident that your student will receive an outstanding private university-quality education at an affordable state university price. Our expert faculty and professional staff offer a strong safety net of support.

Whether your child needs tutoring or writing assistance, on-campus health care services or career services to identify internships or launch an employment search, excellent resources are close at hand. Your student’s well-being and personal safety are priorities for this university.

Our goal is to make the transition to college as smooth as possible for you and your student, and to keep you informed about happenings on campus throughout the coming years. We welcome you to the UT Tyler community!

How to Make a Tuition Payment

Parents can make payments on their student's tuition and fees by calling and paying with a credit card. For instructions, visit the Make a Payment page.

Parents Q&A
Parents Resources
Parent Resource Center

Parents Q & A
How will my child get around campus?

Walking from class to class usually does not take more than 10 minutes, and the East Texas weather is usually mild.

Campus buildings, including residence facilities, are close together, which means students save time walking from building to building rather than driving.

Will my child be OK living in a residence facility?

Absolutely.

While we may not provide the exact same love and care (doing laundry, making beds) that he/she receives at home, we strive to be the next best thing. Whether it’s food, roommates, entertainment or supervision, the Residence Life Office has it covered.

Residence assistants are on staff at each housing facility to help students get accustomed to living on campus.

Where can students get advice?

While nothing can replace a phone call home, we do our best to meet students’ needs.

For general student life questions – orientation, student organizations, campus activities – students can contact the Department of Student Engagement Office.

While living in one of our residence facilities, students can always seek help from their Resident Assistant. RAs are upperclassmen who are assigned to a floor in each housing facility and offer support by mentoring, connecting them with the campus community and fostering relationships with and among the residents through planned activities.

When it comes to choosing classes or a career, students can always find help through Academic Advising and Career Services.

Our Student Counseling Center can help students work through such issues as time management and study skills.

Is UT Tyler safe?

We take the safety of each student entrusted to us very seriously.

UT Tyler has a highly-trained police department that patrols the campus around the clock. Officers routinely provide services such as vehicle jump-starts, unlock, and personal escorts for students leaving campus buildings after hours. Students can call the police dispatch to request an escort.

UT Tyler has a system for locking residence halls and using UT Tyler ID cards for re-entry. Students gain entry to their rooms using their student ID.

UT Tyler police are involved in crime prevention and awareness programs conducted throughout campus.

What if my child gets sick?

Your first thought will be to come take care of your child, but rest assured that the staff at the University Health Clinic, located on the campus, will help meet those medical needs.

A physician and nurse practitioner are available 5 days a week for primary care diagnosis and treatment.

The Wellness and Prevention Education Program provides counseling and educational information that help students make healthy choices.

What if my child has trouble with classes?

A quality education is what you’ve sent your child to UT Tyler to get, and that’s what we want to help ensure that they get. Our student success programs are designed to help students fully benefit from the university experience.

The Student Learning Communities Program groups students with other students who share majors and/or interests. They attend core classes together providing a supportive environment for academic achievement.

Supplemental Instruction provides peer mentors and tutors who help note-taking and test-taking skills.

Our Student Services Offices is extremely dedicated to helping students who have physical or learning disabilities through its Disability Support Services.

We want you to feel comfortable with UT Tyler, so we welcome your questions. Please submit them to enroll@uttyler.edu.

Parents Resource Center

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Robert. R. Muntz Library
3900 University Blvd.
Tyler, Tx 75799

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d2881.0561191117126!2d-95.25286244795798!3d32.31480757299257!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x8649cd17e83f9399%3A0xb0ab28a921956fd6!2sThe%20University%20of%20Texas%20at%20Tyler!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1709406946624!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="175" height="175" style="border-radius: 15px;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

800 UT TYLER
Ph: 903.566.7343
library@uttyler.edu

-----------------------------------------------------------------

The University of Texas at Tyler
Palestine Campus
The University of Texas at Tyler makes its outstanding academic programs conveniently accessible to residents of the southwestern region of East Texas via the Palestine Campus. Students experience cost-saving convenience, greater flexibility in scheduling their classes, and reduced travel expenses and commuting time to Tyler, all while receiving a degree from UT Tyler.

Courses are taught using traditional face-to-face delivery by on-site professors, in addition to online and hybrid teaching models.

Degree completion programs available are:

Bachelor of Science in Nursing
Master of Science in Nursing-Online
The University of Texas at Tyler School of Nursing offers a year-round nursing curriculum that students can complete in 16 months.

98% of our nursing program graduates either have a job at graduation or plan to pursue a graduate study.

Preceptored clinical experiences allow each UT Tyler nursing student to be paired with a working RN who serves as a coach and career mentor: UT Tyler was the first to start the preceptor program in Texas.

Longview University Center
The University of Texas at Tyler
Outstanding Programs, Convenient Location

The University of Texas at Tyler Longview University Center offers upper-division courses in nursing and industrial technology. This allows a convenient way for residents of Longview, Gregg County, and surrounding areas to earn a Bachelor of Science in Nursing or Bachelor of Science in Industrial Technology.

Students experience cost-saving convenience, greater flexibility in scheduling their classes and reduced travel expenses, all while receiving a degree from UT Tyler. 

Nursing – One of the Most Respected Degree Programs in Texas Right Here in Longview!

The University of Texas at Tyler offers an entire bachelor of science in nursing curriculum on the Longview University Center campus. Students attend traditional face-to-face courses that are led by full-time, on-site faculty members.

UT Tyler graduates have been educated to succeed:

The University of Texas at Tyler School of Nursing offers a year-round nursing curriculum that students can complete in 16 months. 
98% of our nursing program graduates either have a job at graduation or are planning to pursue graduate study. 
Industrial Technology – Multi-faceted Training Offers a Management Advantage!

A bachelor’s degree from The University of Texas at Tyler in industrial technology prepares students for a wide variety of management oriented technical professions. Graduates find positions as a plant manager, inventory manager, technical sales representative, production supervisor, procurement manager, project engineer, safety manager and industrial engineer.

Houston Engineering Center
The University of Texas at Tyler
Earn a UT Tyler Engineering BS Degree at HEC

The UT Tyler Houston Engineering Center, located on the second floor of the HCC Alief-Hayes campus at 2911 Hayes Road in Houston, offers an innovative pathway to complete a Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, civil engineering, computer engineering and construction management.

Start at Houston Community College, Lone Star College, San Jacinto College or others, and finish at UT Tyler in Houston.
You are automatically admitted to your selected major upon admission to the university.
Create a plan with an advisor to assist in transferring.  
Since opening in 2013, the Houston Engineering Center has provided an affordable, high-quality opportunity to complete an engineering degree entirely in Houston. The HEC also offers a Master of Science degree in mechanical engineering, electrical engineering and civil engineering, including a "4+1" option. 

Visit the Frequently Asked Questions page to learn more about programs offered through the Houston Engineering Center.

 

Contact the UT Tyler Houston Engineering Center Office of Advising for more information:

903.565.6570
hec@uttyler.edu

Freshman Requirements for Incoming Fall 2023
Undergraduate Admissions
Admissions Criteria for Fall 2023
Due to COVID-19, the University of Texas at Tyler will be waiving SAT and ACT requirements for the 2023-2024 academic year. Students are still encouraged to send test scores with their application if available.

How to Become a Patriot: Admissions Criteria 
Student must complete an accredited high school program.
Meet the following requirements:
Top 25%	
Automatic Admission

2nd Quartile	
Minimum of 2.75 GPA

3rd Quartile	
Minimum of 2.75 GPA 

4th Quartile	
Minimum of 2.75 GPA

 

Home School Admissions Criteria
Requirements for home schooled students entering as freshmen are as follows:

Must have 2.75 minimum GPA.
Official Notarized HS transcript.
 
How to Become a Patriot: The Application Process
Follow these simple steps, to join the Patriot Family:

Apply to UT Tyler on ApplyTexas. Our application opens up July 1. Watch a step-by-step video tutorial of how to complete the application here.

Send UT Tyler your official high school transcripts. Transcripts can either be sent electronically by your high school counselor to processing@uttyler.edu, handed in at our One Stop Service Center or mailed to Undergraduate Admissions.

UT Tyler Office of Admissions
3900 University Blvd.
Tyler TX 75799

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d2881.0561191117126!2d-95.25286244795798!3d32.31480757299257!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x8649cd17e83f9399%3A0xb0ab28a921956fd6!2sThe%20University%20of%20Texas%20at%20Tyler!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1709406946624!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="175" height="175" style="border-radius: 15px;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

 3. Send us ACT or SAT test scores if they are available. These test scores can help with class placement your freshman year.

UT Tyler SAT code: 6850
UT Tyler ACT code: 4231                
Application Fee
UT Tyler’s application fee is $60 and can be paid when you submit your application, with our One-Stop Service Center or here.

You may also request a fee waiver by emailing Admissions@uttyler.edu or filling out our form linked below. 

Fee Waiver Form

 

Application Deadlines
UT Tyler has rolling undergraduate admissions and does not have an admissions deadline.

  

Appealing an Admissions Decision
Students who do not meet the minimum admission requirements may appeal their admissions decision. Students must submit an Admissions Decision Appeal form and supply supporting documentation to discuss matters and/or barriers that affected their ability to meet admissions requirements. Appeals will be reviewed by the Admissions Appeals Committee. Consideration will be given to a student’s academic, extracurricular, and personal achievements. To start the appeals process, please submit the appeal form to Undergraduate Admissions. Applications for Appeals must be submitted and completed prior to course registration.

 

Applying for an Admissions Scholarship
UT Tyler offers both Competitive and Merit scholarships to incoming Freshman. For more information on scholarships, please visit the Scholarships webpage.

To be reviewed for a scholarship, students must submit required documents by the posted deadlines. Students who do not submit required documents will not be reviewed.

 

How to Become a Patriot: Your Next Steps
After you submit your application to UT Tyler, be sure to check the email used in your application regularly. We will begin sending you updates about your application. Sign into your myUTTyler student portal to keep track of your application status and complete any To-Do list items.

Here is a checklist of next steps to complete once you are admitted:

Log into your myUTTyler student portal and activate your Patriot email. This will also allow you to set up your permanent UT Tyler credentials.
Submit your FAFSA. Application opens October 1.
Pay your $100 Freshman Confirmation fee here.
Sign up for Housing in your myUTTyler student portal.
Sign up for Orientation and Swoop Camp.
Send your bacterial meningitis shot record to Enroll@uttyler.edu.
Send in ACT/SAT, AP, or IB test scores and dual credit transcripts.
 

More Information on Admission Requirements:
Top 25% applicants:

The applicant must graduate from an accredited high school and have a grade point average in the Top 25% of the applicant's high school graduating class to be admitted automatically (subject to applicable enrollment limit).

An applicant is only eligible for automatic admission up to two years from their high school graduation date.

Regular Admission:

An applicant who does not qualify for automatic admission but meets the following listed criteria also qualifies for regular admission.

Minimum High School Units Required
Beginning freshmen must submit an official high school transcript before classes begin in order to verify graduation and completion of required courses.

Required Coursework:

English Language Arts (4 credits)
Mathematics (3 credits)
Science (3 credits)
Social Studies (3 credits)
Physical Education (1 credit)
Language other than English (2 credits)
Fine Arts (1 credit)
Speech (Demonstrated Proficiency)
Electives (5 credits)
For more information on required coursework, please visit House Bill 5: Foundation High School Program | Texas Education Agency .  Also, contact Admissions@uttyler.edu with any questions.

 

Additional Criteria for Special Circumstances 
In addition to the current university requirements for admission, applicants must also have either: successfully completed the curriculum requirements for the foundation with endorsement or distinguished level of achievement high school program or its equivalent; or satisfied ACT's College Readiness Benchmarks on the ACT assessment application to the applicant, or earned on the SAT assessment a score of at least 1090 out of 1160 or the equivalent.

The above requirement may be satisfied if the applicants official high school transcript or diploma states that the applicant completed the portion of the foundation with endorsement or distinguished level of achievement curriculum or its equivalent that was available to the applicant, but was unable to complete the remainder of the curriculum solely because courses necessary to complete the remainder were unavailable to the applicant at the appropriate times in the applicant's high school career as a result of course scheduling, lack of enrollment capacity, or another cause not within the applicant's control.

 
Quick Links & FAQs
Freshman Application
Submit a completed undergraduate application for admission on ApplyTexas.

Application Fee
A non-refundable $60 application fee is required for U.S. citizens and permanent residents. A non-refundable $75 international application fee is required for all non-U.S. citizens. Applications will not be processed without the application fee. If you have not paid the application fee on your freshman application, click here. 

Scholarships
Freshman applicants who would like to be considered for a competitive scholarship, must complete and submit their scholarship application on ApplyTexas prior to December 1. Students who do not submit the scholarship application and required official documents will not be reviewed. Students may be reviewed for a competitive scholarship, but may not be awarded. 

The Academic Excellence Scholarship is awarded to students who are in the Top 25% of their high school class or who meet alternative criteria for non-ranking institutions. Students must be admitted and submit required official documents by March 1 to be considered for this award. Funding is limited on a first come, first serve basis. 

For more information, visit our Scholarships webpage. 

High School Transcript
An official high school transcript with high school graduation verification is required for final admission. Official can be sent electronically from your high school to processing@uttyler.edu. An official transcript signed and sealed by your high school may also be mailed to the address below or hand delivered to the One Stop Service Center. 

UT Tyler Office of Admissions
3900 University Blvd.
Tyler TX 75799

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d2881.0561191117126!2d-95.25286244795798!3d32.31480757299257!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x8649cd17e83f9399%3A0xb0ab28a921956fd6!2sThe%20University%20of%20Texas%20at%20Tyler!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1709406946624!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="175" height="175" style="border-radius: 15px;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

College Transcripts
Official transcripts are required from each college or university attended. Photocopies and faxed transcripts will not be considered for final admission. Course work from one college posted on the transcript of another college will not be considered for final admission.

SAT/ACT Scores
You can request that official SAT or official ACT scores are sent from the testing agency. To request that your scores be sent after the exam, use the following codes:

UT Tyler SAT code: 6850
UT Tyler ACT code: 4231

Texas Success Initiative (TSI)
Unless a student is exempt, the Texas Success Initiative requires all undergraduate students entering a public college or university in Texas to be assessed for readiness to enroll in freshman-level academic coursework. For information about testing requirements, visit the Texas Success Initiative page.

AP, IB and CLEP Credit
Credit by examination may be established through testing programs such as the Advanced Placement Program (AP), the College Level Examination Program, (CLEP) and International Baccalaureate (IB). Guidelines for credit by examination are listed below. CLEP, AP, and IB credit received from a prior college or university will transfer as credit was awarded.

UT Tyler Credit by Examination Information
State of Texas Uniform Admissions Policy

Academic Advising Frequently Asked Questions
University Advising Center
How do I know who my Academic Advisor is?

Students are assigned an academic advisor within 24 hours of being admitted to UT Tyler.  Students can view their academic advisor at any time by logging into myUTTyler, clicking on the Academic Progress Tile, and then clicking on the View My Advisor tab on the left-side navigation menu.  

How do I schedule an appointment with my Academic Advisor?

Students can visit the EAB-Navigate platform to schedule an appointment with their academic advisor.  Once you have logged into the platform with your myUTTyler login and password you will be able to see your advisor's appointment availability and schedule the time that works best for you.  Students are encouraged to download the EAB-Navigate App on their smart-phone 

Where can I find my degree plan?

Students can view their degree plan, known as the Patriot Advisement Report (PAR), in myUTTyler at any time.  The PAR is considered your official degree plan at UT Tyler.  Check out the myUTTyler Advising Instructions page to find out how to view your PAR and how to read it.  If you think there is a mistake in your PAR, please contact your Academic Advisor and they will investigate.  

How long will it take me to graduate?

The time to graduation is unique for every student depending on your major and the coursework you may have already completed. Students are encouraged to use the Patriot Planner in myUTTYler which allows you to create a multi-semester/multi-year plan based on the courses you need to complete based on your specific major.  The Patriot Planner uses the Patriot Advisement Report (PAR) to determine which courses a you have left to complete and allows you to plan those courses in specific semesters which allows you to see how long completing your degree requirements will take.  Check out our myUTTyler Advising Instructions page to view our Accessing and Understanding Your Patriot Planner for more information about the Patriot Planner feature.

I have an Academic Advising hold on my myUTTYler account, what does that mean and how can I get it removed?

If you have an Academic Advising Hold on your account it means you need to talk with your academic advisor before you register for classes for the upcoming semester. 

If you are a returning student and know the classes you want to register for, please add the courses to your shopping cart and notify your advisor via email that would like to register for the courses in your shopping cart.  Your advisor will review your course selections and if they are appropriate, will remove your advising hold so you can complete your registration.  

If you do not know which classes to register for in the upcoming semester please visit the EAB-Navigate platform to schedule an appointment with your academic advisor.  Prior to your advising appointment please review your Patriot Advisement Report (PAR) to see which courses you have left to complete and make a list of potential course options you can discuss with your advisor.  

What is TSI? How do I know if I need to take it?

Unless a student is exempt, the Texas Success Initiative (TSI) requires all undergraduate students entering a public college or university in Texas to be assessed for readiness to enroll in freshman-level academic coursework. The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board has only approved the TSI testing instrument to determine a student's readiness to enroll in college-level courses.

If you have questions regarding your TSI status, talk with a TSI Specialist.

Who do I contact for more information about some of the special programs such as CAP and Supplemental Instruction?

Supplemental Instruction information can be found on their website. CAP students will need to speak with their UT Tyler advisor assigned to them based on their intended major at UT Austin.  CAP students may also contact Veronica Viesca who serves as the CAP liaison with UT Austin.  

What does the four-digit course code on every course mean?

Example: ENGL 1301

The first digit indicates the level of the course.

(1 = Freshman, 2 = Sophomore, 3 = Junior, 4 = Senior, 5 = graduate)

The second digit indicates the credit hour value of the course.

(1 = 1-credit hour class, 3 = 3-credit hour class, 4 = 4-credit hour class)

The last two digits may indicate sequence.

(For example, students take ENGL 1301 prior to ENGL 1302.)

ENGL 1301 is a freshman level course worth three credit hours.  

How many hours do I need to take in order to be considered a full-time student?

A student who is enrolled in 12 or more credit hours is considered a full-time student; however, to stay on track for graduation and depending on dual credit, AP, or IB credits, you might be able to enroll in more credit hours. 

What is 15 to Finish or 30 in 3?

Most undergraduate degrees require 120 credit hours in order to graduate.  To ensure students stay on track for a four-year graduation it is important that students complete 30 credit hours every academic year.  Students can complete this 30 credit hours by either taking 15 credit hours every fall and spring semester, or by taking 12 credit hours every fall and spring semester and 6 credit hours over the summer for a total of 30 hours in three semesters (fall, spring, and summer).

How many classes should I take if I’m working a part-time job?

Of course, all students are different. However, most full-time students who work part-time find that taking 12 credit hours is the maximum course load they can successfully complete.

How long do classes last?

Classes which are held three days per week such as MWF (Monday, Wednesday, Friday) meet for 55 minutes each day.

Classes which are held two days per week such as TR (Tuesday, Thursday) meet for 1 hour, 20 minutes each day.

Classes which are held once a week, meet for 2 hours, 45 minutes.

Lab classes generally meet once a week for an extended period, for example, biology labs meet for 2 hours, 50 minutes, while Chemistry labs typically meet for 3 or 4 hours depending on the course.

Is it a good idea to schedule all my classes on the same day?

This sounds like a good idea – several days off per week, more free time, more hours to work, etc. However, this is probably not the best idea – especially not in your first semester. If you are like most students, you will probably not look at your homework on your days off. This leads to extra work on school days and more stress in the long run. Also, when test time rolls around, you will have all your exams on one or two days (more stress) rather than spread throughout the week.

What happens if one of the classes I need is closed when I meet with my advisor?

If this happens, you have two options. First, talk with your advisor to see if there is another course you can take instead. If there are no other suitable options, then you can contact the professor and department chair of the closed course to see if space can be made available for you.

I’m going to be participating in intercollegiate athletics. How do I know when to schedule classes so they don’t interfere with practice?

Before you meet with your advisor and attempt to register, talk with your coach to find out when practices and games are scheduled. Also, you may find it helpful to let your professors know that you are a student-athlete. This is especially important if you have to miss a class in order to participate in an athletic event.

I’m having trouble deciding between two majors. What can I do that might help me decide?

First, don’t let this stress you out. This is not uncommon. Many students are undecided or still deciding between two or more majors. UT Tyler Student Services offers an interest inventory assessment that can help students choose a career and the appropriate major for that career. You can contact them at 903.566.7079. You may also want to talk with an advisor in each of the departments in which you are interested. They may be able to answer questions and provide you with the additional information you need in order to make a decision.

How often should I contact my advisor throughout each semester?

As a general rule of thumb, students are encouraged to talk with their advisors on a monthly basis or at least twice a semester. This keeps you up-to-date on degree requirements and ensures you are on the right track for graduation. Feel free to visit with you advisor as often as you like.

Parking FAQs
The University of Texas at Tyler Parking Division


Citations & Appeals
Why am I getting an error message when trying to submit payment for my citation?
99.9% of the time, the error message displayed after attempting to submit payment in the Parking Portal is due to an incorrect billing address. The billing address entered in the Card Information section must be the exact address that is on file with your bank or card issuer as a security measure. If your bank or card issuer does not have your current address on file, then your current address will cause the transaction to be denied. Please verify that the address you are entering for your card matches exactly with what your bank or card issuer has on file before resubmitting payment. If the issue persists, please email parking@uttyler.edu explaining that you have verified the address and it still isn’t working.

How do I pay my citation?
To pay a citation you must login to the UTT Parking Portal: https://uttylerparking.t2hosted.com/cmn/auth_ext.aspx. If you are a student or employee, you will select ‘Affiliated Login’ and use your regular university credentials to access your parking account where you can pay/appeal citations associated with your vehicles, view your vehicle information, and purchase parking permits.

If you are a guest or an alumnus trying to remove a hold from an unpaid citation, you will need to select ‘Guest Login’ and set up an account. Once logged in, you will need the citation number and license plate of the vehicle that was cited to pull up the citation summary, at which point you may pay the citation directly through the Parking Portal. You may obtain the license plate and citation number for payment by emailing parking@uttyler.edu if you do not already have the required information. If you need a hold released from your account, please follow up your payment with an email to parking@uttyler.edu notifying us that you have paid your citation(s) and need to have the hold released from your account.

How can I appeal my citation?
To appeal a citation you must login to the UTT Parking Portal within 10 calendar days of receiving the citation in question: https://uttylerparking.t2hosted.com/cmn/auth_ext.aspx

If you are a student or employee, you will select ‘Affiliated Login’ and use your regular university credentials to access your parking account. Next to the citation summary, you will have the options to either pay or appeal the citation. Selecting the ‘Appeal’ option will give you the opportunity to provide a written statement to the Appeals Committee along with any attachments that might help your case.

If you are a guest (non-student, non-employee), you will need to select ‘Guest Login’ and create an account. Once logged in, you will need the citation number and license plate of the vehicle that was cited to pull up the citation summary, at which point you may appeal the citation directly through the Parking Portal. You may obtain the license plate and citation number for payment by emailing parking@uttyler.edu if you do not already have the required information. Selecting the ‘Appeal’ option will give you the opportunity to provide a written statement to the Appeals Committee along with any attachments that might help your case.

Who makes the final determination on my appeal?
The Appeals Committee is tasked with reviewing and ruling on all UTT parking citation appeals. This committee is made up of 3 UTT students and 3 UTT employees (all outside of the police and parking departments). The Committee meets approximately once a month, and, according to university policy, their determination is final.

What do I do if I haven’t heard anything regarding my appeal?
Once you have submitted your appeal, the 10-business day timeline stops and there is no further action required on your part until the Appeals Committee has given you an email notice of their determination. The Committee meets about once a month, and they review every single appeal. If your appeal is granted, no further action will be required; if your appeal is denied, the citation will be upheld, and you will have 10-business days to pay the citation and avoid the onetime $10 late fee.

What causes vehicles to be booted or towed?
Any individual or vehicle that has accumulated three or more unpaid and un-appealed citations past the 10-business day timeline is subject to be booted or towed. Additionally, any individual or vehicle that has accumulated $200 or more in parking fines or possesses a lost, stolen, or altered parking permit is subject to be booted or towed.

How do I make sure my friends and family don’t get a citation when visiting?
All visitors to the UT Tyler campus are required to have a visitor parking permit. Non-affiliated guests, friends, and family can create an account through the Parking Portal, enter their vehicle information, and create a temporary parking permit for their visit, free of charge.


Parking Permits
How do I get a student permit?
First you must login to the UTT Parking Portal: https://uttylerparking.t2hosted.com/cmn/auth_ext.aspx. As a student, you will select ‘Affiliated Login’ and use your regular university credentials to access your parking account and order parking permits. Select ‘Get Permits’ and complete the steps that follow. You will be asked to select which type of permit you want (motorcycle or vehicle hangtag), provide your vehicle information, shipping address, and payment information. *Please note that the billing address entered during the payment information section must be the same address that is on file with your bank or card issuer for a successful transaction. You may, however, put any valid address you want as the shipping address for the permit to be mailed.

Do I need to put anything in my windshield while my permit is being shipped? I need to park right now!
You do not need to put anything in your windshield – not a receipt, not a temporary permit. You are covered immediately upon successfully ordering your new parking permit. By inputting your vehicle information into the Parking Portal, your vehicle is now covered in the system. The patrolling officers will run your license plate and see that you have a valid permit covering your vehicle regardless of whether it has arrived in the mail yet or not.

What is the difference between the blue student permit and the orange student permit?
The orange student permit is issued to those classified as student residents based on where they live. All student residents of on-campus housing complexes with their own private parking lots are issued the orange student resident permit and must follow the following university policy for resident student parking:

Student Resident permits have special designation to limit their parking to their resident lots Monday through Friday from 8 am to 5 pm. Students with these permits who park in other lots during these restricted times will be cited for Violation 103- Parking in area not designated by permit. After 5:00 pm, during the summer semesters and on all weekends, this restriction is not enforced due to ample parking on campus. (p. 11, Traffic, Parking and Safety Regulations)

How do I get an employee permit?
First you must login to the UTT Parking Portal: https://uttylerparking.t2hosted.com/cmn/auth_ext.aspx. As an employee, you will select ‘Affiliated Login’ and use your regular university credentials to access your parking account and order parking permits. Select ‘Get Permits’ and complete the steps that follow. You will be asked to select which type of permit you want (motorcycle, employee hangtag, or payroll deduction hangtag), provide your vehicle information, shipping address, and payment information if applicable. Many employees choose the payment option of payroll deduction because it is the only prorated option; if you leave your role with the university, your payments stop at that time and if you start working at the university in the middle of a fiscal year, you are not paying the full annual fee for a permit that expires in 6 months.

How do I get a visitor permit?
Family, friends, guest speakers, and all other non-affiliated external visitors of UT Tyler are welcome to a free UT Tyler Guest Parking Permit by creating a guest account in our Parking Portal here: https://uttylerparking.t2hosted.com/cmn/auth_ext.aspx and following the steps under ‘Get Permits’.

If you are a department administrative associate needing to issue multiple guest passes, please reach out to parking@uttyler.edu for further instructions and access to the UTT Web App portal.

How much does a parking permit cost?
The current prices for permits are as follows:

Student Permit:

Semester		Fee
Fall/Spring*	Initial Permit Fee (1 permit per fee)	$90
Fall/Spring*	Additional Permit Fee (1 permit per fee)	$90
Fall/Spring*	Replacement cost for lost permit	$90
Long Summer/Summer I*	Initial Permit Fee (1 permit per fee)	$20
Long Summer/Summer I*	Additional Permit Fee (1 permit per fee)	$20
Long Summer/Summer I*	Replacement cost for lost permit	$20
Summer II*	Initial Permit Fee (1 permit per fee)	$10
Summer II*	Additional Permit Fee (1 permit per fee)	$10
Summer II*	Replacement cost for lost permit	$10
*Permits purchased are valid for all included semesters until the permit expires.



Faculty/Staff Permit:

Semester		Fee
Fall/Spring	Initial Permit Fee (1 permit per fee)	$120
Fall/Spring	Additional Permit Fee (1 permit per fee)	$120
Fall/Spring*	Replacement cost for lost permit	$120
Fall/Spring*	Reserved Space (Administrators, Deans, Department chairs)	$240
*Permits purchased are valid for all included semesters until the permit expires.

*Employee permits purchased using payroll deduction will be pro-rated to $10.00/month ($20/month for reserved) beginning the month the permit is purchased through the portal. You will only be charged the $10.00 monthly fee within the current fiscal year of purchasing the permit, and if you are receiving a paycheck. If employment status ends at any point in the year, you will not be charged the remaining balance.

Is there anywhere I can park for free with no permit?
Yes, parallel parking along Varsity Drive does not require a UTT parking permit, because this is a city street. Varsity Drive is the street along the Northern perimeter of campus, running between University Pines and The Foundry Apartments.

Greek Life
Frequently Asked Questions
Do fraternities and sororities party all the time? What if I don’t drink or I’m not interested in that?


Most fraternities and sororities are values based organizations and promote positive aspects such as academics, community service, leadership, and lifelong connection. Although some fraternities and sororities have reputations for being big partiers, this is not always the reality. Don’t believe everything you see on MTV or in the movies. Fraternities and sororities are meant to enhance your academic experience as a college student, not detract from it. Also, all Greek-letter organizations have policies that prohibit underage members from drinking.


Do fraternities and sororities haze?


Hazing is illegal in the State of Texas and is a violation of the code of conduct at The University of Texas at Tyler. All fraternities and sororities have anti-hazing policies, too. Students seeking membership in Greek-letter organizations should never be asked to engage in any behavior nor do anything that makes them feel uncomfortable. This is considered hazing and will not be tolerated. If at any time you feel as though you are being hazed, please contact the Office of Engagement or the VP of Student Affairs. For additional hazing information, follow this link and scroll to the bottom of the page.


How do I go about joining a fraternity or sorority?


If you are interested in learning more about fraternity and sorority life or are interested in joining a group, check out our how to join page. Some chapters participate in "formal"/ "primary"/ "structured" recruitment, which is a process of mutual selection between current members and potential new members (PNM's) or candidates. You can also continue to check this website from time-to-time for more details, as many of the groups will continue to accept members throughout the school year.

Other chapters participate in an intake process, which begins with a formal informational session or formal rush where prospective members can learn about the organization, policies and expectations related to the intake process, and what they need to do in order to apply. From here, applications are usually submitted and then selected candidates will participate in educational meetings over the course of a few weeks. 

What are the grade and/or enrollment requirements to join a fraternity or sorority?

Individual fraternities and sororities do have a specific grade point average and credit hour requirements to join their organizations, so please check the Sorority Recruitment and Fraternity Recruitment websites for more information.


How much does it cost to join a fraternity or sorority?


Costs to join a fraternity or sorority vary from organization to organization. Typically, the fees the first semester a student joins are higher than subsequent semesters. Most fraternities and sororities have payment plans, and many members have part-time jobs on and off campus in order to help them pay their dues. You do not have to be rich to be Greek! It can be expensive to operate a Greek organization, and dues go toward national fees, service projects, social events, and other resources for members.


Do I have to live in the fraternity or sorority house if I join?


Currently, The University of Texas at Tyler does not have any type sorority or fraternity housing. 

Frequently Asked Questions
Supplemental Instruction
What is SI?

Supplemental Instruction (SI) is:
A series of weekly peer-assisted study sessions (led by an SI Leader) in courses identified as difficult by previous students.

Designed to help improve study skills with the goal of improving grades ½ to 1 whole grade point.

Voluntary for students who want to improve understanding of course material and content.

A collaborative effort among classmates to . . .

Compare notes;
Discuss important concepts;
Develop strategies to study the subject; and
Test yourselves before the instructor does. When they do test you, you’ll be ready!
What's an SI Leader?

Have you ever said, If I knew then what I know now? Or have you ever wished for a do over—repeating an experience from the past with the advantage of being armed with the information you have now?

These are impossible situations, but you can come close in SI with an SI Leader who:

Has taken the course before and done well.
Is a student and is prepared to share with you what to learn and how to learn in the course.
Will attend class everyday, hearing what you hear and reading what you read.

When do SI sessions start?

SI sessions should begin no later than the second week of classes. SI Leaders will hold one to two sessions per week depending on their availability.

What's in it for me?

With regular attendance, chances are good that you'll earn a better grade! You'll have developed a better understanding of course content as well as more effective ways of studying. This will help you in all your classes!
What can be expected in an SI session?
SI Leader will enforce main concepts from the lecture, share problem-solving techniques, provide test reviews, and give practice tests/quizzes before the actual test.
You can attend as many sessions as you like. Each session will be different as they follow the instructor’s lectures.

Sessions are informal—just bring your notes, textbooks, and questions.

SI is NOT:

Remedial
Re-lecturing
Copies of the notes
What if my course is not supported by SI?

If there is a course that you would like to be supported by SI in the future, there are three steps to take:

1. Check to see if your course is supported by any other academic programs on campus, such as the PASS Tutoring Center, Math Learning Center, Writing Center, or Upswing.

2. Talk with your instructor! Share with your instructor that you feel SI would be beneficial to your academic experience in their course. Encourage your faculty member to contact the SI Program Coordinator to discuss support options.

3. Contact the SI Program Coordinator at supplementalinstruct@uttyler.edu. Please send an email that includes information about the course you are requesting and a brief explanation of why you feel SI support would be beneficial for that course. 

HOW IS SI DIFFERENT? 

Supplemental Instruction (SI) is a non-remedial academic support program that focuses on collaboration, group study, and student to student interaction to support students in one specific course the entire semester. The goal of SI Leaders is to facilitate a collaborative learning environment through group work and interactive activities that reinforce concepts students learned with the professors. The SI sessions are voluntary, and they are regularly scheduled outside of class. 

 	Supplemental Instruction (SI)	Tutoring 
What is it? 	Supplemental Instruction (SI) is a non-remedial academic support that focuses on collaboration, group study, and interaction to assist students in one specific course the entire semester. 	Tutoring- help students help themselves, or to assist/guide them to the point at which they become an independent learner, and thus no longer need a tutor. 
Who is it? 	SI Leaders are model students and are working towards a college degree like you. 
  
SI Leaders do not know all the answers, do not teach content (new or old), and will always refer students to instructors and other resources. SI Leaders are peers and can relate to students on their level of learning because they are also students. They have taken the class before and have done well. 	Student Tutors are model students and are working towards a college degree like you. 
 
Tutors do not know all the answers, do not teach content (new or old), and will also refer students to instructors and other resources. 
How does it work? 	SI Leaders encourage group participation and collaborative learning. They review material students have already learned in classes and labs and use collaborative learning techniques to get the students working together to retain information. 	Tutors usually work one-on-one with students to review 1-2 concepts or questions. 
 
They engage in a dialogue so students can get clarity on specific questions or problems they are working on and come ready with questions for their tutor.
What is the relationship to the students they help? 	SI Leaders are peers and can relate to students on their level of learning because they are also students. They have taken the class before and have done well. 	Tutors are typically seen as peers and can relate to students on their level of learning. They have taken the classes they support and have done well in those classes. 
What is the overall goal? 	SI Leaders are oriented towards creating a collaborative learning environment through group work and engaging activities that reinforce concepts students learned with the professors. They break down concepts into smaller parts and emphasize cause and effect relationships.  	Tutors are oriented towards serving students’ immediate needs on particular questions. They equip students with skills so that they can answer their own questions without the help of a tutor. 
Keywords to Remember 	Peers 
collaborative learning environment 
group facilitation 
reinforce content and break down concepts 	Peers 
answering questions 
reinforce content 

Master's Programs Frequently Asked Questions
UT Tyler Soules College of Business
How do I gain admittance to graduate school?

Apply early.  It is best to have application materials complete and submitted at least two months before the semester you would like to begin.
Complete an online application at The University of Texas at Tyler Admissions website.
Submit GMAT scores.  Scores are required for students pursuing an MBA, MS in Human Resource Development, or MS in Industrial Management.  Scores must be less than five years old.
Admission is based on several factors, including undergraduate GPA and GMAT scores.  In some cases, GRE scores can be accepted in lieu of GMAT scores.  Students can apply for provisional admission for one semester but will not be allowed to enroll for subsequent semesters until official scores are on file with the University.
 

Students will not be allowed to enroll in coursework unless all requirements are met.  All documentation should be sent to the Office of Graduate Admissions as well as to the Coordinator of Graduate Programs for the Soules College of Business. 

Undergraduates taking graduate level courses: Can I take graduate coursework during the last semester of my undergraduate career?

Yes.  You can take six hours of graduate coursework in your last semester if:

You are within 12 hours of graduation.
You have applied for graduation.
You have been provisionally admitted to your graduate program for the subsequent semester.
You have been granted permission by the Coordinator of Graduate Programs.
 

Institution code: What are the institution's codes for submitting test scores?

GRE: 6850
FAFSA: Title IV code 011163

Notification: Why have I not been notified of admittance into graduate school?

The following is a list of reasons why you may not have been notified of acceptance to graduate school:

Transcripts have not been received from all of the institutions that you had previously attended.
Transcript was sent prior to your graduation and does not state that you have earned an undergraduate degree.
The online graduate admission form has not been filled out and received and/or the application fee has not been paid.
You had applied for a previous semester which is not automatically rolled over to the current semester. Students must reapply for graduate admittance if they did not attend within three semesters of their initial acceptance.
Letters of recommendation have not been received (for Ph.D. in HRD only).
Have attended a previous semester of graduate school and GMAT scores have not been received and filed.
You have a hold on your account due to unpaid parking tickets, tuition or other fee that was never resolved.
You have changed your address or email without notifying the university.
You have recently changed your name and not filled out the appropriate paperwork to inform the university of this change.
 

How do I know if I have been admitted to graduate school?

You will receive a letter or email notification. Students can also check the status of their application on myUTTyler.

Mailing Address: I have materials to submit to admissions, what is the mailing address?


The Office of Graduate Admissions STE 345
The University of Texas at Tyler
3900 University Blvd
Tyler Texas 75799

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d2881.0561191117126!2d-95.25286244795798!3d32.31480757299257!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x8649cd17e83f9399%3A0xb0ab28a921956fd6!2sThe%20University%20of%20Texas%20at%20Tyler!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1709406946624!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="175" height="175" style="border-radius: 15px;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

More Questions: Who do I contact if I have further questions?

Soules College of Business Graduate Advising can be contacted at 903.565.5836 or by email soulesgradadvising@uttyler.edu.

Office of Graduate Admissions can be contacted at 903.566.7457 or by email ogs@uttyler.edu.

TOEFL score minimums: What are the score minimums for admittance?

A minimum score for graduate admission is 550 on the paper version, 213 on the old computer version, and 79 on the internet-based test. Information concerning the TOEFL may be obtained by writing to TOEFL, P.O. Box 899, Princeton, New Jersey 08540 U.S.A. The ETS institutional code for UT Tyler is 6850. There is no departmental code for TOEFL.

Test-taking strategies and tips
Free online practice tests

Tuition: How much is a master's degree going to cost?

UT Tyler Tuition and Fee Schedule

When should I call the university regarding graduate admittance status?

If it has been over a month since all of your transcripts, letters of recommendations (if required), and GMAT or GRE scores have been sent. If you have addressed all of the previously listed information and cannot register for course work.

Helpful Graduate Studies Links

How To Apply
Graduate Admissions FAQ
Thesis/Dissertation Handbook
Graduate Student Orientation
myUTTyler Tutorials
Code of Ethics
Academic Dishonesty Statement
ogs@uttyler.edu

Thank you for your interest in our programs and please contact us if you have any further questions or problems with admittance to our graduate programs.

Graduate Programs Advising
903.565.5836
Soulesgradadvising@uttyler.edu

Doctoral Program Frequently Asked Questions
UT Tyler Soules College of Business
Application Process

How will I know that all my application materials have been received?
Applicants can check their To Do List through their myUTTyler account or contact the Graduate Admissions Office at 903.566.7457 or ogs@uttyler.edu. It is the responsibility of applicants to keep up with the progress of their applications.
Is there a special format that I need to use for my Career Statement or Admissions Essay?
No. Examples can be found on the Vita and Career Statement page.
What needs to be included in my recommendation letters?
Visit our Recommendation Letter Guidelines page.
Is there a special format that I need to use for my resume or vita?
No. Examples can be found on the Vita and Career Statement page.
Who is going to review my application and how long does this usually take?
Applications will be reviewed by the PhD in HRD Admissions Committee and decisions are generally issued 4-6 weeks after the application deadline passes. All applicants are notified by email of their offer of admission or their denial into the program.
What is the minimum GMAT or GRE score?
There is no minimum score requirement. Applications are reviewed holistically; a low GMAT or GRE score will not automatically exclude any applicant from consideration. Visit the GMAT and GRE websites for more information, registration instructions, and practice tests.
Neither the GMAT nor GRE were a requirement at the institution where I received my master's degree. Can this requirement be waived?
No, this requirement cannot be waived.
I do not test well, but I feel that I qualify to apply to the Ph.D. program; how much are GMAT and GRE scores weighted in the approval process?
The university will not use any singular criteria to evaluate an application. A low GMAT or GRE score should not discourage anyone who feels they are otherwise qualified from applying.
I am finishing up my master's degree in the spring. Can I apply to begin in the following fall?
Yes. You must have completed all of your master’s degree coursework before our program begins, but you can be accepted if you are just waiting on your degree to be conferred.
I have copies of my transcripts – can I send those?
Opened or scanned copies of transcripts cannot be accepted. If you have a sealed, official transcript on hand, you can forward that to the Graduate Admissions Office:

The University of Texas at Tyler
Graduate Admissions – STE 345
3900 University Blvd
Tyler, Texas 75799

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d2881.0561191117126!2d-95.25286244795798!3d32.31480757299257!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x8649cd17e83f9399%3A0xb0ab28a921956fd6!2sThe%20University%20of%20Texas%20at%20Tyler!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1709406946624!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="175" height="175" style="border-radius: 15px;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

Will applicants with a GPA lower than 3.0 for an undergraduate or graduate degree still be considered?
No, not currently.
I just recently took the GRE or GMAT, and I am concerned that the scores will not be received by the deadline. What should I do?
Incomplete applications cannot be reviewed. Please begin the application process early to avoid unexpected delays. Those who do not meet the deadline can reapply for the next admission cycle.
I just requested my transcripts, and I am worried that my previous institution will not send them by the deadline. Will I be excluded from consideration?
Incomplete applications cannot be reviewed. Please begin the application process early to avoid unexpected delays. Those who do not meet the deadline can reapply for the next admission cycle.
I have applied for the program before. Do I need to resubmit all my materials?
Visit the Previous Applicants page.
I will not be ready to start in the fall semester. Can I start in the Spring or Summer?
No, the program is set up in such a way that students must start in fall semesters only.
Program Details

What are the expectations for each class? Where can I view course descriptions?
Course Description information
Where can I view a degree plan for the Ph.D. in HRD?
Degree Plan information
Who are my professors going to be?
View all faculty in the Department of HRD
Is the program full time or part time?
Most of our students are full time and complete coursework in two years.
How long does it take to earn the degree?
Coursework can be completed in two years and the entire degree (including dissertation) could be completed in three years.
How much does the Ph.D. in HRD program cost?
Visit our Graduate Estimated Tuition and Fees Calculator.
Are there assistantships or scholarships available?
Financial Support information
How many applicants will be accepted? How many students will be in each class?
The program will consist of a cohort of no more than 15 students.
May I speak to a current student?
Yes! You might be interested in watching this video or reaching out to any of our PhD student ambassadors.
UT Tyler Campus Information

Where is Tyler, TX? Can I visit the campus?
Tyler is about 2 hours east of the Dallas/Fort Worth area just south of I-20. Visit tylertexas.com for more information. Prospective students are welcome to take a tour of UT Tyler through the Welcome Center.
I will be traveling to Tyler from out-of-town or out-of-state; what options do I have?
There is an airport in Tyler (TYR). There is also a Greyhound bus stop at 210 E Oakwood St. Tyler, TX 75702, and an Amtrak station in Mineola, TX (about 50 minutes north of Tyler off Hwy 69).
Admitted Students

What do I do now that I've been accepted?
View the New Student To Do list.

FAQs for High School Instructors/Representatives

Where are the administrative rules regarding dual credit?

Administrators can locate state legislation and policies regarding dual credit by reviewing the corresponding Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board section of the Texas Administrative Code.

What kind of agreement is required for Dual Credit partnership with UT Tyler?

When a high school agrees to partner with UT Tyler to offer dual credit, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) must be written in order to outline the details of the partnership. The MOU must be approved by designated authorities at both institutions and must include the following information:

Eligible courses
Student eligibility
Location of course
Faculty selection, supervision, and evaluation
Course curriculum, instruction and grading
Academic policies and student support services
Transcripting of credit
Funding
Typically, students will not be able to apply and register for dual credit courses until an official MOU is in place. A new MOU will be signed every year that a high school wishes to partner with UT Tyler.

What are the benefits of partnering with UT Tyler and the Dual Credit program?

There are many benefits to working with UT Tyler's Dual Credit Program, including but not limited to:

Courses are developed and taught by UT Tyler faculty
Students have the benefit of repeating lectures and class exercises
Both the high school instructor and UT Tyler faculty will be available as a resource for students throughout the course
Videos can be close-captioned, transcribed and adapted to different learning styles
Free technology and time management assessment at beginning of the course to determine possible areas for improvement
Early intervention efforts for students who may need academic assistance
24 hour technical support
Access to a multitude of resources on campus and online, including academic advising, unlimited library use, and more
Who is responsible for the content of a course offered in the Dual Credit Program?

The academic department at UT Tyler which houses the subject area is responsible for developing and overseeing all content for the course. Regardless of delivery method, the academic department must approve all content for PACE Program courses.

What is the high school teacher's role in Dual Credit Program online courses?

If the course is online (meaning a UT Tyler faculty member is Instructor of Record), the high school instructor's role is to facilitate the delivery of the course and work with the UT Tyler instructor of record in order to develop a schedule for delivering content consistent with the scheduled time of the course in the high school. In addition, the high school instructor will be responsible for providing a structured environment for students to learn the material as well as supplement with their own knowledge and information. High school course requirements could include supplemental material not included in the college course, and it is the responsibility of the high school instructor to ensure that students are meeting high school requirements.

What requirements are needed in order to credential a high school instructor to teach college courses as part of the Dual Credit Program?
High School teachers interested in teaching college courses through the PACE Program must meet criteria as required by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Comprehensive Standard 3.7.1, which states: 

Faculty teaching general education courses at the undergraduate level must possess doctorate or master’s degree in the teaching discipline or master’s degree with a concentration in the teaching discipline (a minimum of 18 graduate semester hours in the teaching discipline).

In order to begin the credentialing process, teachers must submit graduate transcripts and Curriculum Vitae to the Dual Credit Program Coordinator via email at dualcredit@uttyler.edu.  The appropriate academic department at UT Tyler will review all documents in order to determine if the teacher meets credentialing requirements for SACSCOC.  Documents must be submitted the semester prior to the course being offered (excluding Summer semester) in order to be considered. 

Patriot*Email
http://outlook.com/patriots.uttyler.edu
Technology Support
Patriot*Email is a service provided by The University of Texas at Tyler to all students and faculty. Your Patriot email address has been provided to you by The University of Texas at Tyler for official correspondence between you, the student and us the organization. As such, we will use this email to send/forward any messages UT Tyler deems appropriate.

Patriot*Email Login >
http://outlook.com/patriots.uttyler.edu

Reminder: Your student email username is [username]@patriots.uttyler.edu.

Be aware that while we do not rent or sell your email addresses, we are a public institution and your email address would be provided if an appropriate Freedom of Information Act request was filed and validated.

The Patriot*Email system is now powered by Microsoft Office 365 (Exchange Online).

Your password must:

Contain at least 10 characters.
Contain upper and lower case characters.
Contain at least 1 number.
Not be an exact dictionary word match.
Not be your profile ID or name.
Not contain your profile ID or name.
Not be an old password.
Not contain more than 2 pairs of repeating characters.
Contain characters that can be typed on a standard English (US) keyboard.
Not contain any spaces.
It is recommended to contain at least 1 punctuation character in your password.
Please do not hesitate to email us at itsupport@uttyler.edu or come by RBN 3022.

Do NOT send your password.

Do NOT send your Social Security Number.

Be sure to include your full name, student ID number, and date of birth when requesting assistance. If you have an alternate email address, please send your email request from that account.

UT Tyler Testing Center
The University of Texas at Tyler
The UT Tyler Testing Center provides accurate and secure testing opportunities to meet the individual needs of students and the community in an environment conducive to student and academic success. We provide support to the Student Accessibility and Resources office by providing testing accommodations for students with accessibility needs. We also provide proctoring services for standardized testing, university-level correspondence testing, and placement exams. Pay your testing fees online.

We are located on the top floor of the Library, LIB 460. On the campus map, the Library is located at building #12.

Our operating hours are Monday through Friday, 8 am to 5 pm. During the University's posted finals week, our office has extended operating hours of Monday through Friday, 8 am to 8 pm.

For Non-Accommodated Testing (e.g. CLEP, TSI, etc.):
Services at the UT Tyler Testing Center are by appointment only.  Please call the Testing Center at 903.565.5693 or email testingcenter@uttyler.edu to schedule an appointment. 

 

For Accommodated Testing:
For instructions on how to schedule exams, please contact your student accessibility coordinator.

UT Tyler PASS Tutoring Center
The University of Texas at Tyler
×Weekly Tutoring Schedule
SPRING 2024 TUTORING

The PASS Tutoring Center is located in the Robert Muntz Library for free, walk-in, face-to-face tutoring in LIB 401. We will re-open for tutoring in January, 2024.

Spring 2024 Closures:

March 11-17
ADA Accomodations
The elevator is currently unavailable in the Robert Muntz Library where the PASS Tutoring Center is housed. If you need ADA accomodations for in-person tutoring, please contact us at rmeyer@uttyler.edu ASAP.

Otherwise, please make an online tutoring appointment with either our UT Tyler student tutors or an Upswing tutor. To utilize live captions with Upswing, please follow these instructions. 

For additional ADA accomodations, please contact us at tutoring@uttyler.edu at least 2 business days in advance. Also, please contact the Student Accessibility and Resources (SAR) Office for additional support. 

 

ABOUT US
The PASS Tutoring Center is located in LIB 401 for face to face tutoring, and available through zoom for online tutoring. You do not need an appointment to see a tutor in person; however, you will need an appointment to work with a tutor online. For assistance scheduling an online appointment, please contact us at tutoring@uttyler.edu.

How Can We Help You? 
The PASS Tutoring Center has moved its UT Tyler student tutors to Zoom for online tutoring sessions. In order to make an online tutoring appointment with a UT Tyler student tutor, please visit Navigate. 

How to Make an Online Appointment with a UT Tyler Tutor via Navigate

We are still partnered with Upswing to offer free 24/7 online sessions with Upswing tutors, so feel free to continue this service whenever UTT tutors are unavailable. If you have any questions, please email us at tutoring@uttyler.edu.

The Patriot Academic Success Services (aka, PASS) Tutoring Center offers free, walk-in, face to face tutoring for our currently enrolled UT Tyler students. We also offer online tutoring through Zoom on an appointment basis. We offer tutoring on a variety of STEM, business, and nursing courses that many students take during their undergraduate career. Support for these courses are chosen based on historical institutional data, such as high failure rates, D grades, and withdrawal rates from these courses. 


All of our tutors are students as well. They have taken the course(s) they support, earned an A or B, and are faculty recommended. On top of these high qualifications, our tutors are rigorously trained throughout the semester to ensure that our students have the best experience while visiting the PASS Tutoring Center.  

What Can I Expect When I Visit the PASS Tutoring Center? 

We offer a challenge and support approach in the PASS Tutoring Center. Our tutors will challenge our students to think critically and learn independent learning skills in a collaborative learning environment.  

This means our tutors are not there to give you the answers or do your work for you. After all, our tutors cannot be in class with you when you take your exams. Instead, our tutors can guide you to find the answers on your own, share tips for studying and learning the content from their time taking the course, and help break down difficult content in a way that may be easier to understand.  

Our tutors often help students in a group setting, so they will float from student to student. They are sure to assist each student and answer their questions to the best of their abilities. You do not need to make an appointment to work with a tutor face to face; however, you will need to make an appointment to see a tutor online. In order to assist as many students as possible, we do not guarantee one on one time with our tutors even if you make an online appointment.  

Courses Generally Supported

Please note- these courses are generally supported in the fall and spring semesters

Accounting

Principles of Financial Accounting – ACCT 2301
Principles of Managerial Accounting – ACCT 2302
Biology

Anatomy & Physiology I - BIOL 2301
Anatomy & Physiology II - BIOL 2302
Chemistry

Introductory Chemistry I –  CHEM 1305
General Chemistry I – CHEM 1311
General Chemistry II – CHEM 1312
Organic Chemistry I – CHEM 3342
Organic Chemistry II – CHEM 3344
Mathematics

Intermediate Algebra – MATH 0303
College Algebra-MATH 1314
Pre-Calculus-MATH 2312
Calculus I – MATH 2413
Calculus II – MATH 2414
Physics

College Physics I – PHYS 1301
College Physics II – PHYS 1302
University Physics I – PHYS 2325
University Physics II – PHYS 2326

Undergraduate International Admissions
Earn Your Bachelor's Degree from a Renowned Texas University!
Get an exceptional education and a strong start on your future at The University of Texas at Tyler. Choose from 50 undergraduate majors and learn with outstanding scholars and teachers who balance rigorous classroom learning with nurturing, one-on-one support.

Our goal is to build your skills, talents and confidence for lifelong success. We offer you a unique place to learn and study, with the most modern buildings and state-of-the art tools and technology throughout our labs and classrooms.

Your degree is valued throughout Texas and beyond. Many of our graduating seniors have job offers before graduation. One out of five UT Tyler graduates go on to prestigious graduate or professional schools.

International Students Admission Process
Undergraduate International Freshman and Transfer Scholarships
International Graduate Students Admissions Process

List of all Undergraduate Degrees:
ACCOUNTING
APPLIED ARTS & SCIENCES (BAAS)
ART: HISTORY
ART: STUDIO
BIOCHEMISTRY
BIOLOGY
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
CHEMISTRY
CIVIL ENGINEERING
COMMUNICATION SCIENCES AND DISORDERS
COMMUNICATION STUDIES
COMPUTER ENGINEERING
COMPUTER INFORMATION SYSTEMS
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
ECONOMICS
EDUCATION
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
ENGLISH
FINANCE
GENERAL BUSINESS
HEALTH SCIENCES
HISTORY
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
KINESIOLOGY
MANAGEMENT
MARKETING
MASS COMMUNICATION
MATHEMATICS
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
MUSIC: BACHELOR OF ARTS
MUSIC: BACHELOR OF MUSIC
NURSING: BSN
NURSING: RN-BSN
POLITICAL SCIENCE
PRE-LAW
PRE-MED
PRE-DENTAL
PRE-OT
PSYCHOLOGY
SOCIAL SCIENCES
SOCIAL WORK
SPANISH
WELLNESS

List of Graduate Degrees:
ACCOUNTANCY MSPA
ART MA MA/MFA
BIOLOGY MS
BIOTECHNOLOGY MS
CHEMISTRY MS
CIVIL ENGINEERING MS
CLINICAL MENTAL HEALTH COUNSELING MA
CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY MS
CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY PhD
COMMUNICATION MA
COMPUTER SCIENCE MS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE MS
CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTION MEd
CYBERSECURITY & DATA ANALYTICS MS
EDUCATIONAL LEADERSHIP MEd
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING MS
ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP MS
ENGLISH MA
EXECUTIVE MBA HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT
FINANCE MS
HEALTH ADMINISTRATION MHA
HISTORY MA
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT MS
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PhD
INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT MS
KINESIOLOGY MS
MATHEMATICS MS
MBA
MBA (ACCELERATED)
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING MS
NURSE PRACTITIONER MSN
NURSING ADMINISTRATION MSN
NURSING DNP
NURSING EDUCATION MSN
NURSING INFORMATICS, QUALITY & SAFETY MSN
NURSING MSN-MBA
NURSING PhD
NURSING PSYCHIATRIC MENTAL HEALTH PRACTITIONER MSN
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY MOT
PHARMACY Pharm. D.
POLITICAL SCIENCE MA
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION MPA
PUBLIC HEALTH MPH
READING MEd
SCHOOL COUNSELING MA
SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT EdD
SPECIAL EDUCATION MEd
CERTIFICATE AND CERTIFICATE-PREPARATION PROGRAMS

-----------------------------------------------------------------
Question: Tell me about Human Resource Development PhD Degree.
Question: I have some questions about Human Resource Development PhD Degree

Human Resource Development PhD Degree
Graduate Admissions

Learn how the PhD in Human Resource Development will help you reach your career goals by clicking here. 

Program Information

Degree: PhD

Hours: 60

College: Soules College of Business

Admission Requirements for Human Resource Development PhD Degree:

Students can be admitted while they are finishing their master's degree. However, they must complete their master's degree before they can start the PhD program which starts in the Fall. Submission of a writing sample or a writing sample under timed conditions may also be scheduled. Applicants must also participate in an interview with program faculty on the admissions committee.

Application Instructions: https://www.uttyler.edu/soules-college-of-business/graduate-advising/degree-plans/hrd-phd/

Question: What is the total tuition cost of a Human Resource Development PhD Degree?

Answer: Total Program Tuition Cost: $30,330 Estimated tuition for full-time, in-state on-campus enrollment. Tuition varies by delivery method and hours taken per semester. Calculate your estimated tuition with the tuition calculator.

Question: Where is the tuition calculator?

Answer: here's the link to the tuition calculator:
https://www.uttyler.edu/graduate/tuition-and-fees/

Question: What are the requirements for Human Resource Development PhD Degree?

Answer:
Scholarships/Financial Support:  Yes

Student Research:  Yes

Eligibility: Must have a master's degree in HRD, business administration, management or related field from a college or university approved by a recognized regional accrediting body.

GPA: 3.0 GPA (on 4.0 scale) on all previous academic coursework.

Test Score Required: Submission of GMAT or GRE scores. In lieu of GRE or GMAT scores, the program will accept a peer-reviewed conference paper or journal article on an empirical study employing quantitative methods or evidence that the prospect has received a B or A in a quantitative methods course in the last five years or completed a relevant certification.

Additional requirements for applicants with bachelor’s degrees from foreign institutions include Proof of English Proficiency and an International Transcript Evaluation as outlined here.

Question: How many Letters of Recommendation are needed for Human Resource Development PhD Degree?

Answer: Letters of Recommendation: 3

Resume/Curriculum Vitae: Yes

Admissions Essay: Yes

Deadlines: Fall Admission Only. See calendar for deadlines.
Calender link: https://www.uttyler.edu/graduate/calendar/

Career Outlook: The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics anticipates employment prospects will increase 13 percent through 2022, which is about as fast as the average for all occupations. Opportunities for professionals within certain specialties are expected to be even greater. Position titles with highest growth rates include: employment, recruitment and placement specialists; compensation, benefits and job analysis specialists; and training and development specialists. A doctoral degree is a definite asset for educators, authors and consultants.

Salary Information: See Bureau of Labor Statistics for detailed salary information on these careers. Another great resource is the Occupational Outlook Handbook

Meet a University of Texas at Tyler graduate student.

Be Ready for Leadership Roles in the HRD Field

The University of Texas at Tyler’s doctoral program in human resource development is designed to develop scholars who will advance the profession and serve as leaders in higher education, government and industry.

Build a strategic management perspective by completing the HRD PhD with a specialization in organizational development and change (ODC).
Benefit from a hybrid program format: Meet for on-site classes just 5 times per semester on the UT Tyler campus. Complete the balance of required hours online or in project-based formats.
Conduct research in HRD theory and practice.
Learn more from the Department of Human Resource Development and Technology.

PhD in Human Resource Development: Training Tomorrow’s Leaders.

Complete coursework for the HRD PhD program in as little as 2 years. A dissertation based on original research contributing to the body of HRD knowledge also is required.
Join thought leaders and experienced executives to explore the nuances of our rapidly changing and culturally diverse global workforce.
Continue working while completing your PhD. Classes are often held on the weekends to accommodate executive schedules.

Human Resource Development Faculty: Research-Focused Thought Leaders.

Engage in research and discussion with professors who are frequent HRD conference speakers and presenters on such topics as: Measurement invariance for quantitative theory building, virtual HRD, international HRD, career development, and leadership development.
Undertake research projects with professors who lead academic research in HRD in such areas as: employee engagement, women in leadership, HRD theory building, how comparative HRD theory can contribute to HRD theory development, and how managers can improve teamwork and collaboration.
Learn from educators with professional experiences in HRD at General Electric, KPMG, Motorola, Pennsylvania Power and Light, Texas Instruments, and other leading organizations.
Learn about UT Tyler’s human resource development faculty.

Human Resource Development Courses: Blending Theory and Practice.

Advanced Theoretical Foundations of HRD – Complete a review and assessment of human resource development theories and the scholarly process that is required to develop sound theory in applied disciplines.

Advanced Quantitative Research in HRD – Explore advanced conception and design of quantitative studies with particular application to the content and context of human resource development. The course leads students through the quantitative research process from start to finish and covers key decisions researchers must make at each stage of the process.

Leadership Theory and Practice – Focus on the leadership phenomenon and the contemporary leadership practices to explore the leadership’s role in human resource development (HRD). Studies on leadership theories and research approaches to conceptualizing and practicing effective leadership.

Question: How to contact to learn more on Human Resource Development PhD Degree?

Answer: Find Out More on HRD Phd:

Soules College of Business
3900 University Blvd.
Tyler, Tx 75799

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d2881.0561191117126!2d-95.25286244795798!3d32.31480757299257!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x8649cd17e83f9399%3A0xb0ab28a921956fd6!2sThe%20University%20of%20Texas%20at%20Tyler!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1709406946624!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="175" height="175" style="border-radius: 15px;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

Office Hours:
M-F 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.

800 UT TYLER
903.565.5836
<a href="mailto:SoulesGradAdvising@uttyler.edu">SoulesGradAdvising@uttyler.edu</a>

Ph.D. in Human Resource Development
UT Tyler Soules College of Business
Ph.D. in HRD Degree Plan

Priority admission deadline for the Fall semester is April 1.   Only applicants who apply by April 1 are eligible for the New Graduate Fellowship. After April 1, applications will be accepted until all seats are filled.

Applicants who are offered acceptance into the HRD PhD program will pay a non-refundable seat deposit of $500.00 by the date indicated in the acceptance letter. Failure to pay the deposit will result in forfeiture of the acceptance. The $500.00 is applied toward the first semester tuition. Applicants who accept an offer of admission but later decide not to attend will forfeit the seat deposit.

This program takes new, qualifying applicants each fall. Doctoral applicants must complete this process before being considered for admittance into the Ph.D. program in human resource development with an emphasis in organizational development and change (HRD/ODC). For those applying for financial aid, please visit the Office of Financial Aid website and submit your Ph.D. application materials before the deadline designated by that office.

Question: What are the Admission Requirments for Human Resource Development PhD Degree?

Answer:
Admission Requirements

Master's degree in HRD, business administration, management or related field from an accredited college or university.
3.0 GPA (on a 4.0 scale) on all previous academic coursework.
Submission of GMAT scores taken within 5 years at time of application to the program. In some cases the GRE may be accepted in lieu of the GMAT..
Successful applicants typically have a GMAT score of 540 or a GRE score of 298 (based on a 5 year average – there is no minimum score requirement)..
Submission of a career statement, resume or curriculum vita, and three original letters of recommendation.
Submission of a writing sample or a writing sample under timed conditions may also be scheduled.
Participation in an interview with program faculty on the admissions committee
Application Process

Apply online
Pay the application fee through the website above or make payment directly to the UT Tyler Office of Graduate Admissions
Submit official transcripts from all universities from which you earned a degree. UT Tyler transcripts do not have to be submitted.
Submit official GRE or GMAT scores (scores older than 5 years will not be accepted)
Submit a career statement
Submit your resume or curriculum vita
Request three letters of recommendation from professional, personal or academic references
 
Materials can be submitted The Office of Graduate Admissions electronically at ogs@uttyler.edu or by mail:

Graduate Admissions – STE 345
The University of Texas at Tyler
3900 University Blvd
Tyler, Texas 75799

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d2881.0561191117126!2d-95.25286244795798!3d32.31480757299257!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x8649cd17e83f9399%3A0xb0ab28a921956fd6!2sThe%20University%20of%20Texas%20at%20Tyler!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1709406946624!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="175" height="175" style="border-radius: 15px;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

About the Ph.D. in HRD/ODC Program

The program is designed to prepare researchers and practitioner leaders for a rapidly changing and culturally diverse global workforce. The demographic shifts occurring today at unprecedented rates are changing the face of our communities and organizations. These shifts represent challenges to human resource development professionals who work in constantly changing businesses, industries, education, government, healthcare and nonprofit organizations.

The doctorate is intended primarily as an executive-based program that focuses on organizational development and change (ODC) in the context of business and industry that integrates a strategic management perspective.

The goal of the program is to develop scholars who are capable of making independent contributions to the profession and serving in leadership positions in higher education, primary and secondary education, and other government and industry-roles.

The educational objectives of the Ph.D. program are to prepare graduates to successfully perform in the realms of leadership and research to the field. The core courses of the doctoral program are designed to provide the advanced theoretical and research framework for students.

Delivery Format: Schedule

The Ph.D. in human resource development (HRD) with a specialization in organizational development and change (ODC) is not an online program; however, we do use an executive format program whereby students only meet five times a semester in Fall and Spring and four times a semester in the Summer. The balance of required class time will be completed via online and project based formats.

Tuition

Graduate Estimated Tuition and Fees Calculator

More Information

Frequently Asked Questions -- To-do list for accepted students, schedule, degree plans, etc.

Doctoral Programs FAQ's
Graduate Program Advising

903.565.5836

Soulesgradadvising@uttyler.edu

Human Resource Development Department

Ph.D. in Human Resource Development
UT Tyler Soules College of Business
Ph.D. in HRD Degree Plan

Priority admission deadline for the Fall semester is April 1.   Only applicants who apply by April 1 are eligible for the New Graduate Fellowship. After April 1, applications will be accepted until all seats are filled.

Applicants who are offered acceptance into the HRD PhD program will pay a non-refundable seat deposit of $500.00 by the date indicated in the acceptance letter. Failure to pay the deposit will result in forfeiture of the acceptance. The $500.00 is applied toward the first semester tuition. Applicants who accept an offer of admission but later decide not to attend will forfeit the seat deposit.

This program takes new, qualifying applicants each fall. Doctoral applicants must complete this process before being considered for admittance into the Ph.D. program in human resource development with an emphasis in organizational development and change (HRD/ODC). For those applying for financial aid, please visit the Office of Financial Aid website and submit your Ph.D. application materials before the deadline designated by that office.

Admission Requirements

Master's degree in HRD, business administration, management or related field from an accredited college or university.
3.0 GPA (on a 4.0 scale) on all previous academic coursework.
Submission of GMAT scores taken within 5 years at time of application to the program. In some cases the GRE may be accepted in lieu of the GMAT..
Successful applicants typically have a GMAT score of 540 or a GRE score of 298 (based on a 5 year average – there is no minimum score requirement)..
Submission of a career statement, resume or curriculum vita, and three original letters of recommendation.
Submission of a writing sample or a writing sample under timed conditions may also be scheduled.
Participation in an interview with program faculty on the admissions committee
Application Process

Apply online
Pay the application fee through the website above or make payment directly to the UT Tyler Office of Graduate Admissions
Submit official transcripts from all universities from which you earned a degree. UT Tyler transcripts do not have to be submitted.
Submit official GRE or GMAT scores (scores older than 5 years will not be accepted)
Submit a career statement
Submit your resume or curriculum vita
Request three letters of recommendation from professional, personal or academic references
 

Materials can be submitted The Office of Graduate Admissions electronically at ogs@uttyler.edu or by mail:

Graduate Admissions – STE 345
The University of Texas at Tyler
3900 University Blvd
Tyler, Texas 75799

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d2881.0561191117126!2d-95.25286244795798!3d32.31480757299257!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x8649cd17e83f9399%3A0xb0ab28a921956fd6!2sThe%20University%20of%20Texas%20at%20Tyler!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1709406946624!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="175" height="175" style="border-radius: 15px;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

About the Ph.D. in HRD/ODC Program

The program is designed to prepare researchers and practitioner leaders for a rapidly changing and culturally diverse global workforce. The demographic shifts occurring today at unprecedented rates are changing the face of our communities and organizations. These shifts represent challenges to human resource development professionals who work in constantly changing businesses, industries, education, government, healthcare and nonprofit organizations.

The doctorate is intended primarily as an executive-based program that focuses on organizational development and change (ODC) in the context of business and industry that integrates a strategic management perspective.

The goal of the program is to develop scholars who are capable of making independent contributions to the profession and serving in leadership positions in higher education, primary and secondary education, and other government and industry-roles.

The educational objectives of the Ph.D. program are to prepare graduates to successfully perform in the realms of leadership and research to the field. The core courses of the doctoral program are designed to provide the advanced theoretical and research framework for students.

Delivery Format: Schedule

The Ph.D. in human resource development (HRD) with a specialization in organizational development and change (ODC) is not an online program; however, we do use an executive format program whereby students only meet five times a semester in Fall and Spring and four times a semester in the Summer. The balance of required class time will be completed via online and project based formats.

Tuition

Graduate Estimated Tuition and Fees Calculator

More Information

Frequently Asked Questions -- To-do list for accepted students, schedule, degree plans, etc.

Doctoral Programs FAQ's
Graduate Program Advising

903.565.5836

Soulesgradadvising@uttyler.edu

Human Resource Development Department

Admission Requirements
Graduate Admissions
The minimum graduate admission requirements for The Graduate School are below. Specific programs may have additional requirements. Please check the requirements for your chosen degree program on our Graduate Programs page.

Bachelor’s Degree or Recognized Comparable International Degree
(read more)

GRE or GMAT Scores
(read more)

Proof of English Proficiency
Applicants with an undergraduate degree from a foreign institution must submit results of an English proficiency examination. Evidence of English proficiency must be submitted before admission will be granted.
(read more)

Additional Departmental Requirements
(read more)

Proof of Bacterial Meningitis Vaccination – for those under 22 years of age
(read more)
The submission of documents in support of applications for admission and fellowships such as transcripts, diplomas, test scores, references, essays, or the applications themselves, that are forged, fraudulent, altered from the original, plagiarized, materially incomplete, obtained under false pretenses, or otherwise deceptive (collectively referred to as fraudulent documents) is prohibited by The University of Texas at Tyler and may be punishable by: a bar on applying for admission, fellowships, suspension, and/or expulsion. Students who submit fraudulent documents are not eligible to reapply.

A graduate program is under no obligation to provide feedback to unsuccessful applicants.

Ph.D. in Human Resource Development
UT Tyler Soules College of Business
Ph.D. in HRD Degree Plan

Priority admission deadline for the Fall semester is April 1.   Only applicants who apply by April 1 are eligible for the New Graduate Fellowship. After April 1, applications will be accepted until all seats are filled.

Applicants who are offered acceptance into the HRD PhD program will pay a non-refundable seat deposit of $500.00 by the date indicated in the acceptance letter. Failure to pay the deposit will result in forfeiture of the acceptance. The $500.00 is applied toward the first semester tuition. Applicants who accept an offer of admission but later decide not to attend will forfeit the seat deposit.

This program takes new, qualifying applicants each fall. Doctoral applicants must complete this process before being considered for admittance into the Ph.D. program in human resource development with an emphasis in organizational development and change (HRD/ODC). For those applying for financial aid, please visit the Office of Financial Aid website and submit your Ph.D. application materials before the deadline designated by that office.

Admission Requirements

Master's degree in HRD, business administration, management or related field from an accredited college or university.
3.0 GPA (on a 4.0 scale) on all previous academic coursework.
Submission of GMAT scores taken within 5 years at time of application to the program. In some cases the GRE may be accepted in lieu of the GMAT..
Successful applicants typically have a GMAT score of 540 or a GRE score of 298 (based on a 5 year average – there is no minimum score requirement)..
Submission of a career statement, resume or curriculum vita, and three original letters of recommendation.
Submission of a writing sample or a writing sample under timed conditions may also be scheduled.
Participation in an interview with program faculty on the admissions committee
Application Process

Apply online
Pay the application fee through the website above or make payment directly to the UT Tyler Office of Graduate Admissions
Submit official transcripts from all universities from which you earned a degree. UT Tyler transcripts do not have to be submitted.
Submit official GRE or GMAT scores (scores older than 5 years will not be accepted)
Submit a career statement
Submit your resume or curriculum vita
Request three letters of recommendation from professional, personal or academic references
 

Materials can be submitted The Office of Graduate Admissions electronically at ogs@uttyler.edu or by mail:

Graduate Admissions – STE 345
The University of Texas at Tyler
3900 University Blvd
Tyler, Texas 75799

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d2881.0561191117126!2d-95.25286244795798!3d32.31480757299257!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x8649cd17e83f9399%3A0xb0ab28a921956fd6!2sThe%20University%20of%20Texas%20at%20Tyler!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1709406946624!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="175" height="175" style="border-radius: 15px;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

About the Ph.D. in HRD/ODC Program

The program is designed to prepare researchers and practitioner leaders for a rapidly changing and culturally diverse global workforce. The demographic shifts occurring today at unprecedented rates are changing the face of our communities and organizations. These shifts represent challenges to human resource development professionals who work in constantly changing businesses, industries, education, government, healthcare and nonprofit organizations.

The doctorate is intended primarily as an executive-based program that focuses on organizational development and change (ODC) in the context of business and industry that integrates a strategic management perspective.

The goal of the program is to develop scholars who are capable of making independent contributions to the profession and serving in leadership positions in higher education, primary and secondary education, and other government and industry-roles.

The educational objectives of the Ph.D. program are to prepare graduates to successfully perform in the realms of leadership and research to the field. The core courses of the doctoral program are designed to provide the advanced theoretical and research framework for students.

Delivery Format: Schedule

The Ph.D. in human resource development (HRD) with a specialization in organizational development and change (ODC) is not an online program; however, we do use an executive format program whereby students only meet five times a semester in Fall and Spring and four times a semester in the Summer. The balance of required class time will be completed via online and project based formats.

Tuition

Graduate Estimated Tuition and Fees Calculator

More Information

Frequently Asked Questions -- To-do list for accepted students, schedule, degree plans, etc.

Doctoral Programs FAQ's
Graduate Program Advising

903.565.5836

Soulesgradadvising@uttyler.edu

Human Resource Development Department

Human Resource Development Ph.D.
The Soules College of Business offers a unique doctoral degree that focuses on human resource development (HRD) with a specialization in organization development and change (ODC) in the context of business and industry that integrates a strategic management perspective. The program is offered in an on-campus format that is designed to prepare human resource development scholars with a unique understanding of HRD within the context of business and management.

Doctoral Program Outcomes

The graduates of this program will be able to contribute to research and application in the areas of improving individual, group/team, and organization performance, developing leadership talent within organizations, and leading and facilitating change in organizations with  culturally diverse workforces.

The doctoral program outcomes for candidates who successfully complete the program:

Integrate knowledge from HRD and related disciplines to support the development of researchers and scholars for diverse settings;
Conduct original research in HRD to contribute to research, theory and practice;
Create, synthesize and disseminate original research about the discipline in a variety of publication and conference venues;
Enhance  HRD leadership capability in a variety of workplace settings including business and industry, education, and healthcare;  and,
Collaborate with national and international leaders to promote the discipline.
Admission Requirements

The following criteria must be met for entry into the program:

Master's degree in HRD, business administration, management or related field from a college or university approved by a recognized regional accrediting body.  HRD Ph.D. students may be admitted fully pending proof of master’s degree, but enrollment in HRD doctoral coursework will not be allowed until proof of master’s degree is received.
3.0 GPA (on 4.0 scale) on all previous academic coursework.
Submission of GMAT scores (in some cases the GRE may be accepted in lieu of the GMAT) taken within 5 years at time of application to the program.
Submission of a career statement that articulates the purpose for pursing the Ph.D. in HRD, describes potential research interests, and articulates how the attainment of the degree will influence future career goals.  
Submission of a complete resume or curriculum vita.
Submission of three original letters of recommendation that address the applicant's potential as a Ph.D. scholar in HRD.
Submission of a writing sample or a writing sample under timed conditions may also be scheduled.
Participation in an interview with program faculty on the admissions committee.
Degree Requirements
The Ph.D. in HRD is a 60-hour program beyond the master's degree, culminating in a dissertation. For all University requirements for the Ph.D. degree, please refer to the Doctoral Policies section of the Graduate Policies and Programs chapter.

Question: What core classes are required for a Human Resource Development PhD Degree?

Answer:

Required HRD Core (12 hrs.)
HRD 6310	Advanced Theoretical Foundations of Human Resource Development	
HRD 6312	Contemporary Issues in the Human Resource Development Literature	
HRD 6377	Leadership Theory and Practice	
HRD 6388	Talent Management and Development	
Research Courses (27 hrs.)
HRD 6350	Disciplined Inquiry in Human Resource Development	
HRD 6351	Univariate Statistics	
HRD 6352	Structural Equation Modeling	
HRD 6343	Foundations of Qualitative Research	
HRD 6353	Advanced Qualitative Research in Human Resource Development	
HRD 6355	Multivariate Statistics	
HRD 6359	Research Seminar in Human Resource Development	
HRD 6360	Proposal Development	
HRD 6391	Advanced Topics in Human Resource Development	
ODC Specialization (9 hrs.)
HRD 6314	Organizational Intervention Approaches	
HRD 6334	Organizational Consulting	
HRD 6366	Seminar on Organizational Change and Development	
Dissertation (12 hrs.)
HRD 6195-6995	Dissertation	
Special Degree Requirements
For details on university doctoral requirements, see the general graduate section of this catalog and the UT Tyler Graduate Handbook.

On-campus attendance at all class sessions is mandatory.
Continued registration is contingent upon the student maintaining a 3.0 (on 4.0 scale) or higher GPA. To remain in good standing in the HRD Ph.D. program, a student may earn no more than one C grade regardless of their overall GPA. A second C grade or any one grade below a C will subject the student to dismissal from the Ph.D. program in HRD at the discretion of the program director and the Dean of the Soules College of Business.
Violation of the University Honor Code including cheating and plagiarism will subject the student to dismissal from the program.
The Proficiency Examination may be taken after the student has completed all coursework. Students may not advance to candidacy or register for dissertation hours until all coursework is completed and all portions of the Proficiency Examination have been passed successfully.
A dissertation of original research contributing to the body of knowledge in HRD will be required. Students must complete a minimum of 12 hours of dissertation credits. 
Students must meet all doctoral degree requirements of the University.
Students have a maximum of 9 years to complete the doctoral program. Students will have 5 years to complete the program after being admitted into candidacy. Students unable to complete the program within the designated time limits must file for an extension.
HRD Ph.D. candidates are required to register for a minimum of three credits of dissertation during fall and spring semesters until the dissertation is accepted by The Graduate School.
Transfer work: Students may not transfer coursework into this program.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Admission Requirements
Graduate Admissions
The minimum graduate admission requirements for The Graduate School are below. Specific programs may have additional requirements. Please check the requirements for your chosen degree program on our Graduate Programs page.

Bachelor’s Degree or Recognized Comparable International Degree
(read more)
Applicants must hold a baccalaureate degree from an accredited institution in the US or the foreign equivalent. Applicants should submit official transcripts demonstrating proof of degree directly to the Office of Graduate Admissions. Official transcripts are typically mailed in a sealed university envelope directly from the issuing institution. UT Tyler also accepts electronic transcripts sent via a secure delivery method (Parchment, E-Script Safe, Speed-E, etc.) directly from the issuing institution. Electronic transcripts forwarded by the applicant are not considered official. Community or junior college transcripts are typically not required, unless otherwise stated on your academic program’s page. UT Tyler transcripts need not be forwarded by the applicant.


International Transcript Evaluation
With the exception of the programs listed below, applicants with foreign transcripts must submit a detailed, course-by-course international transcript evaluation.

The following programs do not require an evaluation unless specifically requested by the program:

- Computer Science, MSCE Civil Engineering, MSEE Electrical Engineering, MSEL Engineering Leadership, and MSME Mechanical Engineering.

The evaluation determines an applicant's degree comparability to a US bachelor's degree and provides their GPA on the US scale. UT Tyler accepts international transcript evaluations conducted by the current members of the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services.



GRE or GMAT Scores
(read more)
UT Tyler does not have a designated minimum GRE or GMAT score, but the desired minimum GRE score range for most programs is 290-300. You can find more information about the GRE exam on the Educational Testing Service (ETS) website. The official GRE score transmission code for The University of Texas at Tyler is 6850. You can find out more about the GMAT exam on the Graduate Management Admission Council (GMAC) website.

Certain programs, like our Non-Degree Seeking options, do not require an entrance exam, while others offer waivers. Please check the requirements for your chosen degree program on our Graduate Programs page.


Proof of English Proficiency
Applicants with an undergraduate degree from a foreign institution must submit results of an English proficiency examination. Evidence of English proficiency must be submitted before admission will be granted.
(read more)
Accepted tests are the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), the Pearson Test of English (PTE), the International English Language Testing System (IELTS), or the Duolingo English Test (DET).

Minimum scores are as follows:

DET - 105
TOEFL – 79 (iBT) or 550 (pBT)
IELTS – 6.5 band score with 6.0 in each subsection
PTE Academic - 53
EIKEN - Grade 1

NOTE: Applicants to graduate Psychology and Counseling programs must have a minimum TOEFL score of 87, IELTS score of 7.0 with 6.5 or greater in each subsection, or  DET score of 115.

UT Tyler’s Educational Testing Service (ETS) code for TOEFL is 6850. An institutional code is not required to submit your official IELTS scores. Please contact your IELTS testing center to request that your IELTS scores be electronically transmitted to UT Tyler. Please provide this exact information to your testing center:
 

The University of Texas at Tyler
Office of Graduate Admissions
3900 University Blvd
HPR 248
Tyler, TX, 75799



There are some exemptions to our language proficiency requirement. Each exemption is outlined below:
(View Exemptions)


Additional Departmental Requirements
(read more)
Some programs require additional materials for admission such as letters of recommendation, a resume, a statement of purpose, and/or portfolios. Refer to the admission requirements of the program to which you are applying to determine if and what additional requirements should be submitted.

Official documents should be submitted to the Office of Graduate Admissions at the following address:

Graduate Admissions, HPR 248
The University of Texas at Tyler
3900 University Blvd.
Tyler, TX 75799

All submitted documents become the property of UT Tyler and cannot be returned to applicants.


Proof of Bacterial Meningitis Vaccination – for those under 22 years of age
(read more)
Please see UT Tyler's Meningitis Policy.

Students enrolled in online-only programs may email ogs@uttyler.edu to have the bacterial meningitis vaccination hold released. The email should be sent from their Patriots Email and should state:

"I have read and understand the Bacterial Meningitis Policy. I am not currently enrolled in any on-campus classes, and I understand that if I do enroll in any on-campus classes I must submit documentation of immunization from an appropriate medical professional 10 days prior to the first class meeting. Failure to provide documentation will cause delays in the registration process."
The submission of documents in support of applications for admission and fellowships such as transcripts, diplomas, test scores, references, essays, or the applications themselves, that are forged, fraudulent, altered from the original, plagiarized, materially incomplete, obtained under false pretenses, or otherwise deceptive (collectively referred to as fraudulent documents) is prohibited by The University of Texas at Tyler and may be punishable by: a bar on applying for admission, fellowships, suspension, and/or expulsion. Students who submit fraudulent documents are not eligible to reapply.

A graduate program is under no obligation to provide feedback to unsuccessful applicants.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Question: The Faculty of the HRD Department? Can you show me the factuly of the Human Development Department?
Answer:
Kim Nimon
Interim Chair, PHD Coordinator, Professor
Email: knimon@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.566.7310
Office: COB 315.14

Yonjoo Cho
Professor
Email: ycho@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.566.7260
Office: COB 315.21

Andrea Ellinger
Professor Emeritus
Phone: 903.566.7310

Rochell McWhorter
Associate Professor
Email: rmcwhorter@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.566.7330
Office: COB 315.15

Paul Roberts
Professor and Bachelor of Science in HRD Program Coordinator
Email: proberts@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.566.7334
Office: COB 315.19

Judy Sun
Associate Professor and Master of Science in HRD Program Coordinator
Email: jsun@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.565.5912
Office: COB 315.18

Greg Wang
Professor
Email: gwang@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.565.5910
Office: COB 315.13

Sangok Yoo
Assistant Professor
Email: syoo@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.565.5646
Office: COB 315.17

Afton Barber
Adjunct Lecturer

Robert Carpenter
Executive in Residence and Adjunct Lecturer

Sam Carrell
Adjunct Lecturer

Sharon Cathcart
Adjunct Lecturer

Janice Chretien
Adjunct Lecturer

David Conley
Adjunct Lecturer

Rosemary Cooper
Adjunct Lecturer

Ashley Kutach
Adjunct Lecturer

Nandini Mcclurg
Adjunct Lecturer

Lacey Monarch
Adjunct Lecturer

Elizabeth Nesuda
Adjunct Lecturer

Joanna Norman
Adjunct Lecturer

Susan O'Sullivan
Adjunct Lecturer

David Silberman
Adjunct Lecturer

John Turner
Adjunct Lecturer

Cara Wreyford
Adjunct Lecturer

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Department of Human Resource Development
Faculty

Question: Who is the chair of the HRD Department?
Answer:
Kim Nimon
Interim Chair, PHD Coordinator, Professor

Email: knimon@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.566.7310
Office: COB 315.14

Title: Interim Chair, PHD Coordinator, Professor
Department: Human Resource Development
Building: COB 315.14
Email: knimon@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.566.7310

Degrees
Ph.D. in Educational Research, University of North Texas, 2013
Ph.D. in Applied Technology and Performance Improvement, University of North Texas, 2007
M.A. in Organizational Leadership, Regent University, 2003
B.S. in Computer Science, University of Arkansas, 1981
Biography
Dr. Kim Nimon is Professor in the Department of Human Resource Development. Previously, she was Associate Professor in Department of Learning Technologies and Director and Founder of the Information for Research and Analysis (IRA) Lab at the University of North Texas (UNT). Her areas of expertise are in workforce development (human resource development, employee engagement, corporate chaplaincy programs) and analytical methodologies (applied general linear model analyses, statistical software programming, measurement and evaluation). She has published extensively in refereed journals including American Journal of Evaluation, Frontiers in Psychology, Human Resources Quarterly, Multivariate Behavioral Research, and Organizational Research Methods. 

Dr. Nimon has made over 100 refereed presentations for international and national scholarly organizations and was recently awarded the Early Career Scholar Award by the Academy of Human Resource Development. She also holds patents from both the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and Canada Intellectual Property Office. Dr. Nimon holds leadership positions in professional organizations including the American Educational Research Association, Academy of Human Resource Development, and the Southwestern Educational Research Association. She is also Editor Emeritus for Human Resource Development Quarterly.

Dr. Nimon received the PhD in Applied Technology and Performance Improvement from UNT in 2007 and the PhD in Educational Research, also from UNT, in 2013. Her M.S. in Organizational Leadership is from Regent University and B.S. in Computer Science is from the University of Arkansas.

Yonjoo Cho
Professor

Email: ycho@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.566.7260
Office: COB 315.21

Title: Professor
Department: Human Resource Development
Building: COB 315.21
Email: ycho@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.566.7260

Degrees
Ph.D. in Instructional Technology, The University of Texas at Austin
M.A. in Sociology, Yonsei University, South Korea
B.S. in Education, Yonsei University, South Korea

Biography
Dr. Yonjoo Cho is a professor of Human Resource Development. Previously, she was an associate professor of Instructional Systems Technology at Indiana University (2008-2020). Before joining academia, she worked in profit, non-profit, and academic sectors in South Korea, and her latest position was MBA Director at the KAIST Business School, Seoul, South Korea.

Dr. Cho’s research interests include action learning in organizations, international HRD, and women in leadership. She has published three books including: Trends and Issues in Action Learning Practice: Lessons from South Korea (Cho & Bong, 2013) with Routledge and Current Perspectives on Asian Women in Leadership: A Cross-Cultural Analysis (Cho et al., 2017) and Korean Women in Leadership (Cho & McLean, 2018) with Palgrave Macmillan. She teaches Ph.D. courses (Advanced Qualitative Research Methods and Contemporary Issues in HRD Literature) and master’s courses (Foundations of HRD, Needs Assessment in HRD, and Training Design).

Dr. Cho has served as an elect board member of the Academy of Human Resource Development (AHRD) (2016-2018) and Editor-in-chief of Human Resource Development Review (Impact Factor: 6.4) (2020-2023) and serves on the editorial board of Action Learning: Research and Practice, Asian Women (SSCI), European Journal of Training and Development, Human Resource Development International, Human Resource Development Quarterly (SSCI), and Human Resource Development Review (SSCI). She also serves with the Korea Action Learning Association and Korean Association for Educational Technology.

Andrea Ellinger
Professor Emeritus

Phone: 903.566.7310

Rochell McWhorter
Associate Professor

Email: rmcwhorter@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.566.7330
Office: COB 315.15

Title: Associate Professor
Department: Human Resource Development
Building: COB 315.15
Email: rmcwhorter@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.566.7330

Degrees
Ph.D., Texas A&M University
M.Ed., The University of Texas at Tyler
B.S., The University of Texas at Tyler
Biography
Rochell McWhorter is an Associate Professor of Human Resource Development (HRD) in the Soules College of Business at The University of Texas at Tyler. Her long-term research agenda includes the study of virtual scenario planning (VSP) as the development of leadership capability and capacity within virtual environments for the purpose of preparing organizations for times of uncertainty. Her passion for emerging technologies includes the study of virtual human resource development (VHRD) to discover its implications for research and practice in the field of HRD. She utilizes various techniques in the classroom such as social media, infographics, digital badges, augmented reality, and artificial intelligence; and, she is a champion of service-learning and researcher of eSports.

Teaching and Research Interests
Scenario Planning as the Development of Leadership Capability and Capacity 
Virtual Human Resource Development 
Virtual Scenario Planning
Service-Learning

Paul Roberts
Professor and Bachelor of Science in HRD Program Coordinator

Email: proberts@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.566.7334
Office: COB 315.19

Title: Professor and Bachelor of Science in HRD Program Coordinator
Department: Human Resource Development
Building: COB 315.19
Email: proberts@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.566.7334

Degrees
Texas A & M University, College Station, Texas, 1994, Department of Educational Human Resource Development, Ed.D. Specializations: Curriculum Development and Educational Technology.
Southwestern Oklahoma State University, Weatherford, Oklahoma, 1987, M.Ed. Major: Industrial Arts Education.
Southwestern Oklahoma State University, Weatherford, Oklahoma, 1985, B.S. Major: Industrial Arts Education. Minor: Health, Physical Education and Recreation.
Biography
Paul B. Roberts is currently a Professor in the Department of Human Resource Development in the Soules College of Business.  He has received over $1 million in grants and funded projects since coming to UT Tyler in 1992. He is the currently serving as the Faculty Athletic Representative her at UT Tyler. His research focuses on Virtual HRD and the demographics of HRD programs. Paul has received numerous honors and awards for teaching.  He was recently awarded the Chancellor's Council Outstanding Teaching Award and nominated for the Regents’ Outstanding Teaching Award.  Paul received the 2017 Academy of Human Resource Development Service Award he was the seventh recipient in the history of the organization.  He earned his doctorate with an emphasis in computer assisted instruction and curriculum development from the Department of Human Resource Development at Texas A&M University.

Teaching and Research Interests
Demographics of HRD programs 
New employee mentoring programs 
E-learning 
Applications of multimedia

Judy Sun
Associate Professor and Master of Science in HRD Program Coordinator

Email: jsun@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.565.5912
Office: COB 315.18

Title: Associate Professor and Master of Science in HRD Program Coordinator
Department: Human Resource Development
Building: COB 315.18
Email: jsun@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.565.5912

Degrees
Ph.D. Human Resource Development, The University of Texas at Tyler, 2011
M.B.A. Peking University, 1999
B.A. Capital University of Economics and Business, 1997
Biography
Judy Yi Sun previously served as the director of Career Center at Guanghua School of Management, Peking University, and Career Counselor at Tsinghua University from 2003 to 2006. Before that, she worked as a senior HR Consultant at 51job.com, KPMG Peat Marwick and as an internal HR Consultant at Motorola. Judy is a certified Global Career Development Facilitator (GCDF). She delivered numerous training workshops to certify GCDF in China.

Dr. Sun's passion in research is to explore managers’ career development in organizational settings and the influence of human resource development policies and organizational dynamics on individual manager’s career development. Her teaching interests are Career Development in Organizational Setting, Human Resource Development Theory Building, and Human Resource Development Policy.

Greg Wang
Professor

Email: gwang@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.565.5910
Office: COB 315.13

Title: Professor
Department: Human Resource Development
Building: COB 315.13
Email: gwang@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.565.5910

Degrees
Ph.D. in Human Resource Development, Pennsylvania State University, 1997
M.A. in Management, Pennsylvania State University, 1995
M.S. in Agricultural Economics, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 1988
B.A. in Education, Yan'an University, China, 1982
Biography
Dr. Wang joined the faculty at The University of Texas at Tyler in 2007.  He teaches at the graduate level and enjoys engaging and advising doctoral students.  Dr. Wang has a passion for carrying out research on HRD theory development, international human resource management and development, indigenous Chinese management research, and international HRD.

Sangok Yoo
Assistant Professor

Email: syoo@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.565.5646
Office: COB 315.17

Title: Assistant Professor
Department: Human Resource Development
Building: COB 315.17
Email: syoo@uttyler.edu
Phone: 903.565.5646

Biography
Dr. Sangok Yoo is an Assistant Professor of Human Resource Development. Dr. Yoo received the PhD in HRD at the University of Minnesota in 2020 with two minors – Strategic Management and Entrepreneurship, and Quantitative Methods in Education. His dissertation, The Effects of Expertise Diversity and Task Interdependence on Project Team Effectiveness, received the 2021 ATD Dissertation Award. He earned M.A. in Life-long Education, B.S. in Chemistry Education, and B.A. in Education at Seoul National University, South Korea. Previously, he was an assistant professor of management in the Melvin D. and Valorie G. Booth School of Business at Northwest Missouri State University.

Dr. Yoo’s research agenda focuses on team dynamics, learning, and creativity in interdisciplinary teams, using quantitative methods. His broader research interests also include questions relating to leadership and task design factors that enhance knowledge sharing and creation at the workplace. He has actively published in refereed journals in HRD and related areas, including Human Resources Quarterly, Creativity and Innovation Management, Knowledge Management Research & Practice, Personnel Review, Entrepreneurship Research Journal, Journal of Organizational Effectiveness: People and Performance, and Developmental Psychology.

Dr. Yoo is also a highly committed instructor in various HRD and related topics. His teaching interests embrace Organizational Learning and Development; Team Development; Research Design; and Quantitative Methods and Advanced Statistics.

Adjunct Lecturers

Afton Barber
Adjunct Lecturer

Title: Adjunct Lecturer
Department: Human Resource Development - Adjunct

Degrees
Ph.D., Human Resource Development, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, United States, 2014
M.S., Human Resource Development, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, United States, 2011
B.A., Corporate Communications and Public Affairs, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas, United States, 2003

Robert Carpenter
Executive in Residence and Adjunct Lecturer

Title: Executive in Residence and Adjunct Lecturer
Department: Human Resource Development - Adjunct

Degrees
Ph.D., Human Resource Development, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, United States, 2020
M.B.A., Health Care, the University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, United States, 2014
D.C., Doctor of Chiropractic Medicine, Parker University, Irving, Texas, United States, 1995
B.S., Human Anatomy, Parker University, Irving, Texas, United States, 1992

Sam Carrell
Adjunct Lecturer

Title: Adjunct Lecturer
Department: Human Resource Development - Adjunct

Degrees
Ph.D., Human Resource Development, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, 2018
Other, Organizational Development, Leadership, and Consulting, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, United States, 2013
M.B.A., Business Administration, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, United States, 2010
B.B.A., Management, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, United States, 2007
A.S., Business, Northeast Texas Community College, Mount Pleasant, Texas, United States, 2005

Sharon Cathcart
Adjunct Lecturer

Title: Adjunct Lecturer
Department: Human Resource Development - Adjunct

Degrees
Ph.D., Human Resource Education, Texas A & M University, College Station, TX, 1996
MBA, Business, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, TX, 1988
BBA, Business, The University of Houston, Houston, TX, 1979

Janice Chretien
Adjunct Lecturer

David Conley
Adjunct Lecturer

Title: Adjunct Lecturer
Department: Human Resource Development - Adjunct

Degrees
Ph.D., Human Resource Development / Organizational Development, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, United States, 2019
MPH, Administration, University of Toledo / Bowling Green State University, Toledo / Bowling Green, Ohio, United States, 2006
B.A., Corporate Organizational Communication, University of Houston, Houston, Texas, United States, 2002
B.A., Psychology, University of Toledo, Toledo, Ohio, United States, 2001

Rosemary Cooper
Adjunct Lecturer

Title: Adjunct Lecturer
Department: Human Resource Development - Adjunct

Degrees
Ph.D., Human Resource Development with a specialization in Organizational Development and Change, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, United States, 2015
M.P.A., Public Administration, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, United States, 2009
General Studies, General Studies, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, United States, 2004

Ashley Kutach
Adjunct Lecturer

Title: Adjunct Lecturer
Department: Human Resource Development - Adjunct

Degrees
Ph.D., Human Resource Development, The University of Texas at Tyler, TYLER, Texas, United States
M.A., Speech Communication, Southwest Texas State University, San Marcos, Texas, United States, 1997
B.A., Speech Communication, Southwest Texas State University, San Marcos, Texas, United States, 1996

Nandini Mcclurg
Adjunct Lecturer

Title: Adjunct Lecturer
Department: Human Resource Development - Adjunct

Degrees
Ph.D., Human Resource Development, Organizational Development and Change, University of Texas at Tyler , Tyler, Texas, United States, 2019
M.S., Master of Science and Business Administration (MSBA) Global Social and Sustainable Enterprise (GSSE), Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado, United States, 2008
B.S., Human Development and Family Studies With Emphasis on Multi-Cultural Adults, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado, United States, 2002

Lacey Monarch
Adjunct Lecturer

Title: Adjunct Lecturer
Department: Human Resource Development - Adjunct

Degrees
M.B.A., Business Administration, Texas A&M University, Commerce, Texas, United States, 2017
B.B.A., Business Administration, Northwood University, Midland, Michigan, United States, 2015

Elizabeth Nesuda
Adjunct Lecturer

Joanna Norman
Adjunct Lecturer

Susan O'Sullivan
Adjunct Lecturer

David Silberman
Adjunct Lecturer

John Turner
Adjunct Lecturer

Cara Wreyford
Adjunct Lecturer

Course Syllabi
UT Tyler Department of Human Resource Development
 

 

 

 
Spring 2024
Course Prefix 
Course # 
Course Title 
Faculty 
GENB
2300.001
Business Statistics
Yoo
GENB
2300 .060
Business Statistics
S. Taylor
HRD
3306.001
Team Building 
McWhorter
HRD
3306.068
Team Building
M. Taylor
HRD
3312.060
Training and Development 
McWhorter
HRD
3333.001
Human Relations
Yoo
HRD
4301.060
Supervision 
McWhorter
HRD
4320.060
Job Analysis and Design 
Roberts 
HRD
4370.060
Undergraduate Internship in HRD
McWhorter
HRD
5307.060
Measurement & Evaluation in HRD/Technology Education
Yoo
HRD
5308.060
Needs Assesment in HRD
Cho
HRD
5343.060
Foundations of Human Resource Development 
Roberts
HRD
5347.060
Performance Consulting
Sun
HRD
5347.701
Performance Consulting
Sun
HRD
5352.060
Organization Development 
Silberman
HRD
6310.001
Adv Theoretical Found of Human Resource Development 
Allen
HRD
6312.001
Contemporary Issues in Human Resource Development
Cho
HRD
6355.001
Multivariate Statistics
Nimon
HRD
6359.001
Advanced Research Seminar Human Resource Development 
Nimon
HRD
6366.001
Seminar On Org Change and Development
Carpenter
HRD
6377.001
Leadership Thoery and Practice 
Turner
Fall 2023
Course Prefix 
Course # 
Course Title 
Faculty 
GENB
2300.001, .060
Business Statistics 001
Business Statistics 060
Yoo
HRD
3301.060 
Introduction to HRD and Performance Management Systems 
Roberts
HRD
3306.060
Team Building  
McWhorter
HRD
3342.060
Career Development and Human Resource Planning 
Cooper
HRD
4301.069
Supervision
Taylor
HRD
4320.001
Job Analysis and Design 
Roberts 
HRD
4331.001
Workforce and Organizational Development
Yoo
HRD
4372.001
Capstone in HRD
McWhorter
HRD
5316.060
Career Development in Orgs
Silberman
HRD
5317.0060
Training Design 
Cho
HRD
5336.060 
Adult Learning 
Sun
HRD
5343.060
Foundations of Human Resource Development 
Wang
HRD
5344.060, .001
Conflict Resolution .060
Conflict Resolution .001
McClurg 
HRD
5350.060
Leadership and Ethics in Human Resource Development
McWhorter 
HRD
5352.060
Organization Development 
Sun
HRD
6334.001
Organizational Consulting 
Chretien
HRD
6350.001
Disciplined Inquiry in Human Resource Development 
Wang
HRD
6351.001
Univariate Statistics
Nimon
HRD
6352.001
Structural Equation Modeling
Nimon 
HRD
6353.001
Qualitative Research in HRD
Cho
HRD
6388.001
Talent Management and Development 
Carpenter
Summer 2023
Course Prefix 
Course # 
Course Title 
Faculty 
GENB
2300
Business Statistics
Yoo
HRD
3333
HUMAN RELATIONS
Yoo
HRD
4301
SUPERVISION
Taylor
HRD
4320
JOB ANALYSIS AND DESIGN
Roberts
HRD
4370
UNDERGRAD INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
McWhorter
HRD
5306
QUANTITATIVE METHODS IN HRD
Nimon/Yoo
HRD
5307
MSMT & EVAL IN HRD/TECH EDUC
Wang
HRD
5336
ADULT LEARNING
Sun
HRD
5343
FOUNDATIONS OF HRD
Wang
HRD
5347
PERFORMANCE CONSULTING
Sun
HRD
5350
LEADERSHIP AND ETHICS IN HRD
McWhorter
HRD
5352
ORGANIZATION DEVELOPMENT
Silberman
HRD
6314
ORGANIZATIONAL INTERVENTION APPROACHES
Roberts
HRD
6343
FOUND OF QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
McWhorter
HRD
6360
PROPOSAL DEVELOPMENT
Cho
HRD
6391
ADVANCED TOPICS IN HRD
Allen
Spring 2023
Course Prefix 
Course # 
Course Title 
Faculty 
GENB
2300.001,
Business Statistics
Yoo
GENB
2300 .060
Business Statistics
Yoo
HRD
3306.060
Team Building 
McWhorter
HRD
3306.068
Team Building
Norman
HRD
3312.060
Training and Development 
McWhorter
HRD
3333.060
Human Relations
Yoo
HRD
4301.060
Supervision 
McWhorter
HRD
4320.060
Job Analysis and Design 
Roberts 
HRD
4370.060
Undergraduate Internship in HRD
McWhorter
HRD
5307.060
Measurement & Evaluation in HRD/Technology Education
Wang
HRD
5308.060
Needs Assesment in HRD
Cho
HRD
5343.060
Foundations of Human Resource Development 
Roberts
HRD
5347.060
Performance Consulting
Sun
HRD
5352.060
Organization Development 
Sun
HRD
6310.001
Adv Theoretical Found of Human Resource Development 
Wang
HRD
6312.001
Contemporary Issues in Human Resource Development
Cho
HRD
6355.001
Multivariate Statistics
Nimon
HRD
6359.001
Advanced Research Seminar Human Resource Development 
Nimon
HRD
6366.001
Seminar On Org Change and Development
Carpenter
HRD
6377.001
Leadership Thoery and Practice 
Turner
Fall 2022
Course Prefix 
Course # 
Course Title 
Faculty 
GENB
2300.001, .060
Business Statistics 001
Business Statistics 060
Yoo
HRD
3301.060 
Introduction to HRD and Performance Management Systems 
Roberts 
HRD
3306.060
Team Building  
McWhorter
HRD
3342.060
Career Development and Human Resource Planning 
Wreyford
HRD
4301.069
Supervision
Norman
HRD
4320.001
Job Analysis and Design 
Roberts 
HRD
4331.060 
Workforce and Organizational Development
Yoo
HRD
4372.001
Capstone in HRD
McWhorter
HRD
5316.060
Career Development in Orgs
Silberman
HRD
5317.0060
Training Design 
Cho
HRD
5336.060 
Adult Learning 
Sun
HRD
5343.060
Foundations of Human Resource Development 
Cho
HRD
5344.060
Conflict Resolution 
McClurg 
HRD
5350.060
Leadership and Ethics in Human Resource Development
McWhorter 
HRD
5352.060
Organization Development 
Wang
HRD
6334.001
Organizational Consulting 
Chretien
HRD
6350.001
Disciplined Inquiry in Human Resource Development 
Wang
HRD
6351.001
Univariate Statistics
Nimon
HRD
6352.001
Structural Equation Modeling
Nimon 
HRD
6353.001
Qualitative Research in HRD
Sun
HRD
6388.001
Talent Management and Development 
Carpenter
Summer 2022
Course Prefix 
Course # 
Course Title 
Faculty 
HRD
3333
HUMAN RELATIONS
Conley
HRD
4301
SUPERVISION
Norman
HRD
4320
JOB ANALYSIS AND DESIGN
Roberts
HRD
4370
UNDERGRAD INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
McWhorter
HRD
5306
QUANTITATIVE METHODS IN HRD
Chretien 
HRD
5307
MSMT & EVAL IN HRD/TECH EDUC
Wang
HRD
5336
ADULT LEARNING
Cathcart
HRD
5343
FOUNDATIONS OF HRD
Cho
HRD
5347
PERFORMANCE CONSULTING
Cooper
HRD
5350
LEADERSHIP AND ETHICS IN HRD
McWhorter
HRD
5352
ORGANIZATION DEVELOPMENT
Silberman
HRD
5370
GRADUATE INTERNSHIP 
Sun
HRD
6314
ORGANIZATIONAL INTERVENTION APPROACHES
Roberts
HRD
6343
FOUND OF QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
McWhorter
HRD
6360
PROPOSAL DEVELOPMENT
Wang
HRD
6391
ADVANCED TOPICS IN HRD
Carpenter 
Spring 2022
Course Prefix 
Course # 
Course Title 
Faculty 
GENB
2300.060
Business Statistics
Nesuda
HRD
3306.060
Team Building 
McWhorter
HRD
3306.068
Team Building
Monarch
HRD
3312.060
Training and Development 
McWhorter
HRD
3333.060
Human Relations
Conley
HRD
4301.060
Supervision 
McWhorter
HRD
4320.060
Job Analysis and Design 
Roberts 
HRD
4370.060
Undergraduate Internship in HRD
McWhorter
HRD
4399.060
Independent Study 
McWhorter
HRD
5307.060
Measurement & Evaluation in HRD/Technology Education
Wang
HRD
5308.060
Needs Assesment in HRD
Cho
HRD
5343.060
Foundations of Human Resource Development 
Roberts
HRD
5344.060
Conflict Resolution 
McClurg
HRD
5347.060
Performance Consulting
Sun
HRD
5352.060
Organization Development 
Sun
HRD
6310.001
Adv Theoretical Found of Human Resource Development 
Wang
HRD
6312.001
Contemporary Issues in Human Resource Development
Cho
HRD
6355.001
Multivariate Statistics
Nimon
HRD
6359.001
Advanced Research Seminar Human Resource Development 
Nimon
HRD
6366.001
Seminar On Org Change and Development
Carpenter
HRD
6377.001
Leadership Thoery and Practice 
Turner
Fall 2021
Course Prefix 
Course # 
Course Title 
Faculty 
GENB
2300.060
Business Statistics
Nesuda
GENB
2300.001
Business Statistics
Chretien 
HRD
3301.002 
Introduction to HRD and Performance Management Systems 
Roberts
HRD
3306.060
Team Building  
McWhorter & Baskin
HRD
3342.060
Career Development and Human Resource Planning 
McWhorter
HRD
4301.069
Supervision
Monarch
HRD
4320.001
Job Analysis and Design 
Roberts 
HRD
4331.060 
Workforce and Organizational Development
Conley
HRD
5316.060
Career Development in Orgs
Sun
HRD
5317.0060
Training Design 
Cho
HRD
5336.060 
Adult Learning 
Cathcart 
HRD
5343.060
Foundations of Human Resource Development 
Cho
HRD
5344.060
Conflict Resolution 
McClurg 
HRD
5350.060
Leadership and Ethics in Human Resource Development
McWhorter 
HRD
5352.060
Organization Development 
Silberman
HRD
6334.001
Organizational Consulting 
Chretien
HRD
6350.001
Disciplined Inquiry in Human Resource Development 
Wang
HRD
6351.001
Univariate Statistics
Nimon
HRD
6352.001
Structural Equation Modeling
Nimon 
HRD
6353.001
Qualitative Research in HRD
Sun
HRD
6360.001
Proposal Development 
Wang 
HRD
6388.001
Talent Management and Development 
Kutach

UT Tyler Soules College of Business
Human Resource Development Advisory Council
Dr. Kim Nimon
Interim Department Chair, Professor of Human Resource Development
Department of Human Resource Development

Dr. Gary Bouse
Director of Development
Soules College of Business

Brandy Smith 
Administrative Assistant II
Department of Human Resource Development

 

Executive Officers

Dr. Rob Carpenter, Chair (2024-2025)
CEO
Advanta Genetics

Cindy Klein, Vice-Chair
Cheif Operating Officer
HealthFirst Companies

Ashlea Smith, Secretary
Senior Vice President of HR
Heartland Insurance Security Group

Members

Courtney Miller, M.Ed
504 Specialist
Legacy High School 

Martin Wonsiewicz
Principal
Wons Global Publishing

Jason Trimble
Vice President - Business Development Officer
Texas Bank and Trust

Barbara Grubbs
Vice President Human Resource
Diamon C Trailers

David Silberman 
Department of Management
Boston University

Angela Driggs
Executive Director
Smith County Medical Society

Felicia Beam
Human Resources & Safety
John Soules Foods

Kristen Stovall
Dean - Business, Entrepreneurship & Information Technology
Kilgore College

Whitney Scoggins
Human Resource Business Partner
Trane Technoogies

Cindy Ownes
Principal
Frankston High School

Paula Anthony
Chief Strategy Officer
UT Health East Texas

Human Resource Development BS Degree
Be Ready to Lead in Tomorrow’s Changing Workplace
A bachelor’s degree in human resource development from The University of Texas at Tyler prepares you to move into this dynamic field and create a satisfying, productive work environment for employees and your organization. HRD graduates find positions in business, nonprofit organizations, educational institutions and government.

Take advantage of one of the nation’s few bachelor’s programs in human resource development—available right here in East Texas.
Develop skills used in both human resource development and human resource management through a mix of HRD and management courses.
Careers in this field are available in business, nonprofit, educational and government settings.

Bachelor’s in HRD: Practical. Timely.

Earn a degree that prepares you for various career paths, such as corporate management, supervisory roles in human resources or graduate studies in the HRD field.
Learn how to design and implement human resource development plans that best use employee skills and abilities in a dynamic work environment.
Complete an internship in HRD departments at East Texas companies to gain the on-the-job experience valued by employers.
Join the student chapter of the Society of Human Resources Management, the largest HRM organization in the world, for networking and professional development.
Find out more about the human resource development BS degree.

Master of Science in Human Resource Development (HRD) Degree
UT Tyler Soules College of Business
Master of Science in HRD Degree Plan

About the M.S. in HRD Program

Total Semester Credit Hours = 36

Non-Thesis

Human Resource Development (HRD) is a process of developing human expertise through organization development and personnel training and development so that individual improvement enhances corporate performance. Careers in this field are available in business, nonprofit, educational and government, and the military settings.

The HRD program provides students the opportunity to combine study and related experiences to develop, apply, analyze, synthesize and evaluate knowledge of the purposes, practices, issues and problems of private for profit and public not-for-profit organizations. Students also have the opportunity to learn how to design, deliver and evaluate effective training programs. This program is delivered completely online.

General Graduate Admission Requirements

Apply Online.
Pay the application fee.
Submit official and unofficial transcripts to the Office of Graduate Admissions.
Admission to the degree program is determined primarily on the basis of predictors of success in graduate study:
a baccalaureate degree from an accredited institution,
grade point average computed on the last 60 undergraduate hours and
satisfactory score on the Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT). In rare instances the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) may be accepted in lieu of the GMAT.
Submit official and unofficial GMAT scores to the Office of Graduate Admissions.
There are additional requirements for students with international course work such as a detailed international
transcript evaluation which determines an applicant's degree comparability to a US bachelor's degree (UT Tyler does NOT evaluate international transcripts).
Applicants with three or more years of extensive managerial work experience (earned in the U.S. or with a U.S. government entity) may request to have the GMAT requirement waived by the Program Advisor. This decision is made on a case-by-case basis; "extensive managerial experience" will typically mean a full-time supervisory or managerial position held for a significant period of time after completing the bachelor's degree as demonstrated with a resume.
See the Graduate School Calendar for deadlines
M.S. in HRD Additional Admission Requirements

Leveling Courses

There are no leveling courses for admission, and the program is flexible enough to accommodate applicants with a bachelor's degree in any discipline.

GMAT Scores

Successful applicants have a GMAT and GPA figured as follows:
Last 60 hr GPA x 200 + GMAT score = 1000 or greater.
If a student's last 60 hour GPA = 3.25 or higher, the GMAT can be waived.

Provisional Admission

Provisionally accepted students may enroll in one semester for a maximum of nine hours before being required to submit a GMAT score. After this semester is completed, a hold will be placed on a student's account until GMAT scores are submitted to the Office of Graduate Admissions.

Transfer Coursework

Subject to approval by the coordinator of graduate programs and the dean of the Soules College of Business, students may transfer up to nine hours of graduate credit earned at an approved university.

Master's FAQ's

Department of Human Resource Development

Graduate Programs Advising
903.565.5836
Soulesgradadvising@uttyler.edu

------------------------------------------------------------------

List of courses by Degree for UT Tyler:

Anthropology
ANTH 2346.001 - Introduction to Anthropology - Hanratty
ANTH 3380.001 - Physical Anthropology - Hanratty
ANTH 4310.001 - North American Indians - Guderjan
ANTH 4360.001 - Topics in Anthropology - Advanced Maya Archaeology - Guderjan

Criminal Justice
CRIJ 1301.001 - Intro to Criminal Justice - K. Stadelmann                                                                     
CRIJ 1301.060 - Intro to Criminal Justice - Wooldridge
CRIJ 1310.060 - Fundamentals of Criminal Law - Miller
CRIJ 2328.001 - Police Systems and Practices - Ferguson
CRIJ 3301.060 - Survey of Forensic Science - Kotulla
CRIJ 3311.060 - Admin of Criminal Justice Agencies - Charlson
CRIJ 3320.061 - Criminology - Scott
CRIJ 3344.060 - Drugs, Behavior, and Criminal Justice - Wooldridge
CRIJ 4307.060 - Juvenile Justice System - Thompson
CRIJ 4309.001 - Family Violence - Scott
CRIJ 4322.001 - Criminal Justice Research Methods - Bailey
CRIJ 4333.001 - Contemporary Policing - Castillo
CRIJ 4355.001 - Senior Seminar in Criminal Justice - Helfers
CRIJ 5303.060 - Contemporary Crime Theory - Wooldridge
CRIJ 5310.060 - Topics in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security - Kotulla
CRIJ 5332.060 - Law Enforcement: Environment and Practice - Helfers
CRIJ 5355.060 - Criminal Justice Capstone - Helfers
CRIJ 5396.060 - Research Methods - Royal

Economics
ECON 2301.001 - Principles of Macroeconomics - Doty
ECON 2301.060 - Principles of Macroeconomics - Lozier
ECON 2301.061 - Principles of Macroeconomics - Bergan
ECON 2301.D002 - Principles of Macroeconomics - Saygili
ECON 2302.001 - Principles of Microeconomics - Doty
ECON 2302.029 - Principles of Microeconomics - HONORS - Doty
ECON 2302.060 - Principles of Microeconomics - Castaneda
ECON 2302.061 - Principles of Microeconomics - Cuellar Tapia
ECON 3302.060 - Economic & Financial Literacy - Doty
ECON 3314.001 - Intermediate Microeconomic Analysis - Castaneda
ECON 4345.001 - Health Economics - Castaneda
ECON 4350.001 - Topics in Economics - International Macroeconomics and Finance - Saygili
ECON 4355.001 - Econometrics - Saygili

Geography
GEOG 1301.001 - Physical Geography - Isom
GEOG 1313.001 - World Regional Geography - Sills
GEOG 1313.060 - World Regional Geography - Isom
GEOG 4330.001 - Geographic Information Systems - Sills
GEOG 4360.001 - Cartography and Remote Sensing - Sills

Public Administration
PADM 5312.060 - Non-Profit Management - Franks
PADM 5331.060 - Info Systems in Public Admin - Scott
PADM 5339.060 - Urban and Regional Planning - Franklin
PADM 5350.060 - Human Resources Management - Cooper
PADM 5353.060 - Public Administration Capstone - Wink
PADM 5396.060 - Research Methods - Royal

Sociology
SOCI 1301.001 - Introduction to Sociology - Cregler
SOCI 1306.060 - Contemporary Social Problems - Cregler
SOCI 3321.001 - Multi-Cultural Studies - Cregler

Social Work
SOCW 2361.001 - Introduction to Social Work - Mycke
SOCW 3303.001 - Human Behavior in the Social Environment - Mycke
SOCW 4140.001 - Pre-Field Orientation - Freeman
SOCW 4310.001 - Child and Family Social Work - Freeman
SOCW 4333.001 - Social Work Group Practice - Freeman
SOCW 4334.001 - Social Work Community Practice - Kenney
SOCW 4335.001 - Communities and Organizations - Mycke
SOCW 4601.030 - Practicum I - Freeman

Art
ART 1301 Introduction to Art (section 001)
ART 1301 Introduction to Art (section 060 - Online/Distance)
ART 1301 Introduction to Art (section 061 - Online/Distance)
ART 1311 Two-Dimensional Design
ART 1312 Three-Dimensional Design
ART 2304 Art History Survey II
ART 2326 Beginning Sculpture
ART 2333 Beginning Printmaking
ART 2379 Beginning Ceramics
ART 3320 Intermediate Life Drawing I
ART 3343 Jewelry & Metalsmithing
ART 3340/5336 Aesthetics in Visual Learning
ART 3366 Intermediate Painting
ART 3369 Collage
ART 3379 Ceramics
ART 4192 Senior Exhibition (Studio Art)
ART 4337 Advanced Painting Techniques
ART 4341 Advanced Jewelry & Metalsmithing
ART 4376 Advanced Intaglio/Relief
ART 4379 Advanced Sculpture
ART 4380 Advanced Ceramics
ART 4391/5391 Topics in Art History: Visual Culture of the Cold War (section 001)
ART 4391/5391 Topics in Art History: Murals, Martyrs, and the Macabre: Mexican Revolutionary Art (section 002)
ART 5370 Graduate Studio Practice
ART 5371 Graduate Internship Practicum
ART 5395/5397 Thesis and Thesis Exhibition (Studio Art)

Biology:
BIOL 1302 - Introduction to LIfe Sciences II
BIOL 1306 - General Biology I
BIOL 1306.06 - General Biology I Online
BIOL 1307 - General Biology II
BIOL 1307.06 - General Biology II Online
BIOL 1330 - Biology in Popular Culture
BIOL 2301 - Anatomy & Physiology I
BIOL 2302 - Anatomy & Physiology II
BIOL 2302.060 - Anatomy & Physiology II (online course)
BIOL 2320 - Introduction to Microbiology
BIOL 3332 - Genetics 
BIOL 3334 - Cell Biology
BIOL 3336 - Ecology
BIOL 3338 - Biological Evolution
BIOL 3339 - Plant Biology
BIOL 3343 - Physiology 
BIOL 3350 - Conservation Biology 
BIOL 4115 - Scientific Communication II
BIOL 4300 - Microbiology  
BIOL 4304 - Biogeography
BIOL 4330 - Herpetology 
BIOL 4340 - Ornithology 
BIOL 5193 - Biostatistics
BIOL 5303 - Advanced Cellular Physiology
BIOL 5342 - Bioinformatics
BIOL 5380 - Molecular Ecology
BIOL 1106 - General Biology I Laboratory
BIOL 1107 - General Biology II Laboratory
BIOL 2101 - Anatomy & Physiology I Laboratory
BIOL 2102 - Anatomy & Physiology II Laboratory
BIOL 2120 - Introduction to Microbiology Laboratory
BIOL 3133 - Genetics Laboratory
BIOL 3134 - Cell Biology Laboratory
BIOL 3144 - Human Physiology Laboratory
BIOL 3137 - Ecology Laboratory 
BIOL 3139 - Plant Biology Laboratory
BIOL 4101 - Microbiology Laboratory  
BIOL 4131 - Herpetology Laboratory
BIOL 5133 - Landscape Ecology Laboratory

Chemistry
CHEM1305.001 - Introductory Chemistry I
CHEM1105.ALL - Introductory Chemistry I Lab
CHEM1311.001 - General Chemistry I
CHEM1111.ALL - General Chemistry I Lab
CHEM1312.001 - General Chemistry II
CHEM1112.ALL - General Chemistry II Lab
CHEM1320.001 - Forensic Chemistry I
CHEM1321.001 - Forensic Chemistry II
CHEM1330.060 - Culinary Chemistry
CHEM1350.001 - Chemistry in Action
CHEM3310.001 - Analytical Chemistry
CHEM3111.ALL - Analytical Chemistry Lab
CHEM3320.001 - Inorganic Chemistry
CHEM3121.ALL - Inorganic Chemistry Lab
CHEM3342.001 - Organic Chemistry I
CHEM3143.ALL - Organic Chemistry I Lab
CHEM3344.001 - Organic Chemistry II
CHEM3145.ALL - Organic Chemistry II Lab
CHEM3346.001 - Macromolecular, Supramolecular, and Nanoscale Chemistry
CHEM3352.001 - Physical Chemistry I
CHEM3153.ALL - Physical Chemistry I Lab
CHEM3354.001 - Physical Chemistry II
CHEM3155.001 - Physical Chemistry II Lab
CHEM3360.001 - Research Methods
CHEM3370.001 - Perspectives on Science & Math
CHEM4332.001 - Spectroscopy
CHEM4312.001 - Instrumental Analysis
CHEM4113.001 - Instrumental Analysis Lab
CHEM4330.001 - Advanced Inorganic Chemistry
CHEM4334.001 - Biochemistry I
CHEM4135.ALL - Biochemistry Lab
CHEM4336.001 - Biochemistry II
CHEM4340.001 - Proteomics
CHEM4344.001 - Molecular Basis of Disease
CHEM4383.001 - Chemical Principles of Fermentation
CHEM4190.001 - Chemical Literature
CHEM4191.001 - Seminar
CHEM4195 - Undergraduate Research

Geology
GEOL3310.001 - Physical Geology and Astronomy
GEOL3314.001 - Oceanography and Meteorology

Physics
PHYS1301.001 - College Physics I
PHYS1101.ALL - College Physics I Lab
PHYS1302.001 - College Physics II
PHYS1102.ALL - College Physics II Lab
PHYS1303.060 - Intro to Astronomy
PHYS2325.001 - University Physics I
PHYS2125.ALL - University Physics I Lab
PHYS2326.001 - University Physics II
PHYS2126.ALL - University Physics II Lab
PHYS4326.001 - Intro to Quantum Mechanics
PHYS4340.001 - Modern Physics
PHYS4399.001 - Independent Study

MASS COMMUNICATION
MCOM 2306.060 Media Design and Production
MCOM 2307 Mass Media and Society
MCOM 2311.001 Writing for Mass Media
MCOM 2311.002 Writing for Mass Media
MCOM 2313 Introduction to Multimedia Production
MCOM 2315 Sports Communication
MCOM 3303 News Writing
MCOM 3312 Publication Design
MCOM 3318.001 Media Law and Ethics
MCOM 3350.001 Video Production
MCOM 3360 Photojournalism
MCOM 3370 Web Design
MCOM 3380 Brand Identity Design
MCOM 3395 Writing for PR and Advertising
MCOM 4332 Advanced Media News
MCOM 4365.001 Public Relations Campaigns

COMMUNICATION STUDIES
CMST 1311 Introduction to Communication Studies
CMST 1315 Fundamentals of Public Speaking
CMST 1315.005 Fundamentals of Public Speaking
CMST 1315.006 Fundamentals of Public Speaking
CMST 4320 Communication Theory/COMM 5308 Seminar Comm Theory
CMST 4360 Popular Culture and Mass Media

MASTER OF ARTS IN COMMUNICATION
COMM 4315/5335 Organizational Communication
COMM 5308 Seminar Comm Theory/CMST 4320 Communication Theory

English
ENGL 1200- College Composition I Lab- Natalia Menkina Snider
ENGL 1200- College Composition I Lab- June Oh
ENGL 1200- College Composition I Lab- Maximillion Patton
ENGL 1200- College Composition I Lab- Miriam Rowntree
ENGL 1200- College Composition I Lab- Mark Sidey
ENGL 1301- College Composition I- Karen Buckland
ENGL 1301- College Composition I- Nicole Hicks
ENGL 1301- College Composition I- Kristen Jackson
ENGL 1301- College Composition I- Natalia Menkina Snider
ENGL 1301- College Composition I- June Oh
ENGL 1301- College Composition I- Maximillion Patton
ENGL 1302- College Composition II- Miriam Rowntree
ENGL 1302- College Composition II- Mark Sidey
ENGL 2311- Technical and Business Writing- Mark Sidey
ENGL 2322- English Literature to the 1780's- David Strong
ENGL 2323- British Literature from 1770 to the Present- Catherine Ross
ENGL 2363- World Literature Since the Renaissance: American Immigrant Literature- Natalia Menkina Snider
ENGL 2370- Reading American Leadership- Ann Beebe
ENGL 3308- Writing Textual Analysis- Matthew Kelly
ENGL 3312- Creative Writing I- Anett Jessop
ENGL 3314- Creative Writing II- Glenn Blake
ENGL 3362- Reading and Writing about Data- Matthew Kelly
ENGL 3375- Modern Grammar and Professional Editing- Tara Propper
ENGL 4355- American Literary Realism- Anett Jessop
ENGL 4365- Victorian Women Writers and Their World- Catherine Ross
ENGL 4371- Special Topics in Rhetoric and Writing (Grant Writing)- Kay Jenkins
ENGL 4374- Texts, Tech, & Humanities- June Oh
ENGL 4393- Writing Center Theory and Practice- Miriam Rowntree
ENGL 4397- Senior Seminar/Topics in English- Ann Beebe
ENGL 5300- Bibliography and Research Methods- Tara Propper
ENGL 5325- Victorian Women Writers and Their World- Catherine Ross
ENGL 5369- Senior Seminar/Topics in English- Ann Beebe
ENGL 5370- World Literature (Comparative Women's Literature)- Hui Wu
ENGL 5388- History and Practice Rhetoric- Mark Sidey
ENGL 5392- Writing Center Theory and Practice- Miriam Rowntree

French
FREN 1611- Accelerated French I- Kayla Hartman

Spanish
SPAN 1611- Accelerated Spanish I- Ramiro Ardon
SPAN 1611- Accelerated Spanish I- Myrna Vale
SPAN 4301- Medical Spanish I- Gregory Utley
SPAN 4360- Hispanic Cinema- Gregory Utley
SPAN 4385- Spanish for Oral Proficiency/Advanced Spanish Grammar- Gregory Utley
SPAN 5301- Medical Spanish I- Gregory Utley

Philosophy
PHIL 1301- Introduction to Philosophy- Gregory Bock
PHIL 1304- Introduction to World Religions- Wes Crawford
PHIL 2306- Introductions to Ethics- Matt Deaton
PHIL 2306- Introductions to Ethics- Christopher King
PHIL 2306- Introductions to Ethics- Griffin Nelson
PHIL 2331- Foundations of Leadership- Gregory Bock
PHIL 3304- Existentialism- Gregory Bock 
PHIL 4301- Bioethics- Gregory Bock

History
HIST 1301.001 US History I - Dr. M Rhys Dotson
HIST 1301.060 US History I - Dr. Matthew Stith
HIST 1301.061 US History I - Ms. Meri Souliman
HIST 1301.062 US History I - Ms. Meri Souliman
HIST 1302.001 US History II - Dr. M Rhys Dotson
HIST 1302.002 US History II - Ms. Hollie Attebury
HIST 1302.060 US History II - Dr. M Rhys Dotson
HIST 1302.061 US History II - Dr. Mary Linehan
HIST 1302 Dual Credit US History II - Mrs. Nikki Carter
HIST 1303.001 A History of Technology and Innovation in US Society Since 1865 - Dr. Jeffrey Owens
HIST 2321.060 World Civilizations I - Mrs. Nikki Carter
HIST 2322.060 World History 1500 - Present - Dr. Mandy Link
HIST 3300.001 Historical Methods and Research - Dr. Matthew Stith
HIST 3353.001 Reformation Europe - Dr. Edward Tabri
HIST 4328.001 Modern American Diplomatic History - Dr. Jeffrey Crean
HIST 4334.060 Women in US History - Dr. Mary Linehan
HIST 4364.060 World War II: A Global History - Dr. Mandy Link
HIST 4365.001 The Cold War - Dr. Colin Snider
HIST 4371.001 The History of Mexican Americans - Dr. M Rhys Dotson
HIST 4386.001 Civil War and Reconstruction - Dr. Matthew Stith
HIST 5353.001 Reformation Europe - Dr. Edward Tabri
HIST 5357.040 Eighteenth Century Europe - Dr. Mandy Link
HIST 5394.001 Historiography - Dr. Colin Snider
HIST 5397.001 The American Presidents - Dr. Justin Liles

Mathematics
HNRS 2414.001 - Honors Calculus II - D. Milan
MATH 0303.001 - Intermediate Algebra - F. Meza
MATH 0303.002 - Intermediate Algebra - G. Kambhampati
MATH 0303.003 - Intermediate Algebra - N. Bailey
MATH 0303.004 - Intermediate Algebra - G. Kambhampati
MATH 0303.005 - Intermediate Algebra - F. Meza
MATH 1324.001 - Mathematics for Business and Economics I - D. Armstrong
MATH 1324.002 - Mathematics for Business and Economics I - J. Zeng
MATH 1324.003 - Mathematics for Business and Economics I - A. Berry
MATH 1325.001 - Mathematics for Business and Economics II - D. Armstrong
MATH 1332.001 - Mathematics for Liberal Arts Majors I - F. Meza
MATH 1332.002 - Mathematics for Liberal Arts Majors I - F. Meza
MATH 1342.001 - Statistics I - S. Graves
MATH 1342.002 - Statistics I - N. Bailey
MATH 1342.003 - Statistics I - C. Chappa
MATH 1342.004 - Statistics I - N. Bailey
MATH 1342.005 - Statistics I - H. Singh
MATH 1342.006 - Statistics I - G. Kambhampati
MATH 1342.007 - Statistics I - T. Lynn
MATH 1342.008 - Statistics I - F. Meza
MATH 1342.009 - Statistics I - N. Bailey
MATH 1342.011 - Statistics I - K. Anders
MATH 1342.012 - Statistics I - N. Bailey
MATH 1342.013 - Statistics I - A. Davis
MATH 1342.029 - Honors Statistics I - K. Anders
MATH 1343.001 - Statistics II - C. Chappa
MATH 1350.001 - Concepts of Modern Mathematics I - D. Koslover
MATH 1351.001 - Concepts of Modern Mathematics II - N. Smith
MATH 1351.002 - Concepts of Modern Mathematics II - N. Smith
MATH 2312.001 - Precalculus - K. Anders
MATH 2312.002 - Precalculus - T. Mayo
MATH 2312.003 - Precalculus - N. Lebowitz-Lockard
MATH 2312.004 - Precalculus - R. Gupta
MATH 2330.001 - Discrete Structures - S. Graves
MATH 2413.001 - Calculus I - G. Kambhampati
MATH 2413.002 - Calculus I - H. Singh
MATH 2413.003 - Calculus I - N. Lebowitz-Lockard
MATH 2413.004 - Calculus I - H. Singh
MATH 2414.001 - Calculus II - J. Zeng
MATH 2414.002 - Calculus II - J. Zeng
MATH 2414.003 - Calculus II - D. Milan
MATH 2415.001 - Multivariate Calculus - J. Vandehey
MATH 3203.001 - Matrix Methods in Science and Engineering - M. Dawsey
MATH 3305.001 - Ordinary Differential Equations - C. Graves
MATH 3305.002 - Ordinary Differential Equations - C. Graves
MATH 3336.001 - Abstract Algebra I - M. Dawsey
MATH 3351.001 - Probability and Statistics for Engineers and Scientists - D. Koslover
MATH 3365.001 - Geometric Systems - D. Koslover
MATH 3373.001 - Advanced Ordinary Differential Equations - J. Vandehey
MATH 3380.001 - Algorithms in Applied Mathematics - S. Graves
MATH 3425.001 - Foundations of Mathematics - D. Koslover
MATH 3452.001 - Advanced Concepts of Mathematics - N. Smith
MATH 4160.001 - Senior Seminar I - R. Beckham
MATH 4161.001 - Senior Seminar II - R. Beckham
MATH 4306.001 - Topology - S. Davis
MATH 4351.001 - Applied Statistics - N. Smith
MATH 5306.001 - Graduate Topology - S. Davis
MATH 5311.001 - Graduate Advanced Engineering Mathematics - R. Beckham
MATH 5332.001 - Graduate Algebra II - R. Gupta
MATH 5382.001 - Graduate Applied Mathematics II - R. Beckham

Music
MUAP xx01 - Violin
MUAP xx20 - Flute
MUAP xx29 - Clarinet
MUAP xx41 - Horn
MUAP xx46 - Trombone
MUAP xx50 - Euphonium
MUAP xx81 - Voice
MUAP x121 - Oboe
MUAP x125 - Jazz Improvisation
MUAP x137 - Trumpet
MUAP x138 - Natural Trumpet
MUAP x166 - Organ
MUAP x169 - Piano
MUAP x171 - Accompanying
MUAP x187 - Composition
MUAP x233 - Saxophone
MUAP x237 - Trumpet
MUAP x241 - Horn
MUAP x246 - Trombone
MUAP x253 - Tuba
MUAP x257 - Percussion
MUAP x269 - Piano
MUAP x287 - Composition
MUAP 1111 - Harmony & Keyboard I
MUAP 1112 - Harmony & Keyboard II
MUAP 1261 - Guitar
MUAP 2001 - Piano Proficiency
MUAP 2111 - Harmony & Keyboard III
MUAP 2112 - Harmony & Keyboard IV
MUAP 2161 - Guitar
MUAP 2221 - Oboe
MUAP 2261 - Guitar
MUAP 3000 - Junior Recital (Trumpet)
MUAP 3138 - Applied Natural Trumpet
MUAP 3221 - Oboe
MUAP 3261 - Guitar
MUAP 4101 - Analytical Research Project
MUAP 4201 - Internship in Piano Pedagogy
MUAP 4221 - Oboe
MUAP 4261 - Guitar

Ensembles
MUEN x131 - Brass Ensemble
MUEN x131 - Patriot Drumline
MUEN x131 - Percussion Ensemble
MUEN x131 - String Ensemble
MUEN x131 - Swoop Jazz Collective
MUEN x135 - Jazz Ensemble
MUEN x140 - Wind Ensemble
MUEN x145 - Concert Chorale
MUEN x151 - Opera/Musical Theatre
MUEN x155 - Patriot Singers
MUEN 1131 - Guitar Ensemble
MUEN 3131 - Guitar Ensemble

Lecture
MUSI 1000 - Recitals, Concerts and Productions
MUSI 1116 - Aural Skills I
MUSI 1117 - Aural Skills II
MUSI 1211 - Music Theory I
MUSI 1306 - Music Appreciation (Allen)
MUSI 1306 - Music Appreciation (Heiden)
MUSI 1306 - Music Appreciation (Ogburn)
MUSI 1312 - Music Theory II
MUSI 1313 - History of Rock
MUSI 2116 - Aural Skills III
MUSI 2117 - Aural Skills IV
MUSI 2211 - Music Theory III
MUSI 2308 - Music Literature
MUSI 2312 - Music Theory IV
MUSI 3214 - Advanced Conducting & Score Reading
MUSI 3220 - Woodwind Methods
MUSI 3221 - Brass Methods
MUSI 3222 - Percussion Methods
MUSI 3223 - String Methods
MUSI 3224 - Diction 1
MUSI 3226 - Choral Conducting & Score Reading
MUSI 3228 - Instrumental Seminar for Vocal Majors
MUSI 3229 - Vocal Seminar for Instrumental Majors
MUSI 3230 - Song Literature
MUSI 3231 - Vocal Pedagogy
MUSI 3240 - Marching Band Techniques
MUSI 3242 - Electronic Music
MUSI 3311 - Conducting
MUSI 3313 - Survey of American Musical Theatre
MUSI 3318 - Musics of the World
MUSI 3319 - Music History I
MUSI 3320 - Music History II
MUSI 3325 - Teaching Music in the Elementary School
MUSI 3327 - Teaching Music in the Secondary Schools
MUSI 3330 - Topics in Pedagogy & Literature: Brass
MUSI 3330 - Topics in Pedagogy & Literature: Piano
MUSI 3330 - Topics in Pedagogy & Literature: Vocal
MUSI 3335 - Piano Pedagogy
MUSI 3348 - Composers Seminar
MUSI 4199 - Wind Literature
MUSI 4201 - Internship in Piano Pedagogy
MUSI 4212 - Band Administration
MUSI 4225 - Choral Literature I
MUSI 4226 - Choral Literature II
MUSI 4320 - Piano Literature
MUSI 4340 - Counterpoint
MUSI 4342 - Form and Analysis
MUSI 4343 - Topics in Music Theory
MUSI 4345 - Arranging for Ensembles
THTR 1356 - Cinema: Films & Performers
THTR 3329 - Theatre History
THTR 3330 - Theatre History

Political Science
POLS 2305.001 Introduction to American Government - Mr. Eric Lopez
POLS 2305.002 Introduction to American Government - Dr. Kenneth Bryant Jr.
POLS 2305.060 Introduction to American Government - Ms. Melissa Salgado
POLS 2305.061 Introduction to American Government - Dr. Amentahru Wahlrab
POLS 2305.062 Introduction to American Government - Dr. Amentahru Wahlrab
POLS 2306.001 Introduction to Texas Politics - Mr. Nickolas Rios
POLS 2306.002 Introduction to Texas Politics - Dr. Robert Sterken
POLS 2306.003 Introduction to Texas Politics - Mr. Eric Lopez
POLS 2306.301 Introduction to Texas Politics - Mr. Eric Lopez
POLS 2306.302 Introduction to Texas Politics - Mrs. Nikki Carter
POLS 2306.303 Introduction to Texas Politics - Ms. Katarina Stadelmann 
POLS 2306 Dual Credit Introduction to Texas Politics - Mrs. Nikki Carter
POLS 2320.001 The Study of Law - Mr. Trey Yarbrough
POLS 3300.001 Development of the First Amendment - Mr. Eric Lopez
POLS 3375.060 European Political Systems - Dr. Marcus Stadelmann
POLS 4316.001 Model United Nations II - Ms. Melissa Salgado
POLS 4345.060 Public Policy Analysis - Dr. Geoffrey Willbanks 
POLS 4353.001 Contemporary Political Theory - Dr. Randy LeBlanc
POLS 4355.001 American Politics in Mass Media - Dr. Kenneth Bryant Jr.
POLS 5321.001 Seminar in Political Theory - Dr. Randy LeBlanc
POLS 5341.060 International Relations - Dr. Robet Sterken

Accounting
ACCT 2301.001 Principles of Financial Accounting
ACCT 2301.002 Principles of Financial Accounting
ACCT 2301.003 Principles of Financial Accounting
ACCT 2301.004 Principles of Financial Accounting
ACCT 2302.001/.002/.003 Principles of Managerial Accounting
ACCT 2302.060 Principles of Managerial Accounting
ACCT 3170.001 Build An Accounting Career
ACCT 3300.060 ACCT/FINA Small Business & Entrepreneurs
ACCT 3311.001 Intermediate Accounting I
ACCT 3312.002 Intermediate Accounting II
ACCT 3315.001 Cost Accounting
ACCT 3325.001 Federal Income Taxation
ACCT 4313.001 Intermediate Accounting III
ACCT 4380.001 Auditing
ACCT 4391.001 Accounting Information Systems
BLAW 3301.001 Business Law & Social Responsibility
BLAW 3301.002 Business Law & Social Responsibility
BLAW 3301.003 Business Law & Social Responsibility
BLAW 3301.060 Business Law & Social Responsibility
BLAW 4320.001 Employment Law
FINA 3311.001 Principles of Finance
FINA 3311.002 Principles of Finance
FINA 3311.061 Principles of Finance
FINA 3311.062 Principles of Finance
FINA 3315.060/061 Personal Finance
FINA 3330.001 Investments
FINA 4310.001 Managements of Financial Institutions
FINA 4330.001 Security Analysis
FINA 4340.001 Managerial Finance
FINA 4356.001  Energy Risk Management
FINA 4357.001 Business Forecasting
GENB 4350.060 Diversity in Organizations

Computer Science

COSC 1307.060 - Introduction to Information Systems Software - Delk                             
COSC	3333.060/.061	- Computer Information Systems -	Shaw
COSC	5362.062 -	Ethical Hacking -	Nix
COSC	5350 -	Data Communication and Networks -	Subramanian
COSC	1336.001 -	Programming Fundamentals -	Alger
COSC	1337.001 - Object Oriented Paradigm -	Alger
COSC	4390.001 -	Game Development II -	Alger
COSC	1315	- Programming Fundamentals for non-CS Majors - Morris
COSC	2336	- Data Structures and Algorithms - Morris
COSC	4385	- Database Management Concepts -	Li
COSC	5360	- Database Design	- Li
COSC	4361-5342 -	Cyber Securtiy Management -	Memarian
COSC	4364-5364	- Cyber Risk Analysis	- Memarian
COSC	5356	- Computer Vision	- Kulkarni
COSC	4356	- Computer Vision -	Kulkarni
COSC	2315.001 -	Computer Organization -	Kulkarni
COSC	1337	- Object Oriented Paradigm	- Kulkarni
COSC	5347 - 	Business Intelligence -	Chung
COSC	5342.060 -	Cyber Security Management -	Roberts
COSC	5342.701	- Cyber Security Management -	Roberts
COSC	3385	- Database Design -	Dakshit
COSC	4375-4395 -	Capstone	- Dakshit
COSC	1307.062/.063	- Introduction to Information Systems Software -	Rainwater
COSC	3355.001	- Operating Systems -	Rainwater
COSC	4315	- Information and Knowledge Management -	Brown
CSCI	4332.001 -	Game Developement I -	Alger
CSCI	5346	- Database Analytics -	Chung
CSCI	5374.060	- Quantitative Analytics	- Roberts
CSCI	5374.061 -	Quantitative Analytics -	Roberts
CSCI	5334	- Data Analytics with Python	- Li
CSCI	5350	- Machine Learning -	Subramanian
CSCI	4385 -	Capstone -	Dakshit

Human Resource Development
GENB 2300.001 - Business Statistics - Yoo
GENB 2300 .060 - Business Statistics - S. Taylor
HRD 3306.001 - Team Building - McWhorter
HRD 3306.068 - Team Building - M. Taylor
HRD 3312.060 - Training and Development - McWhorter
HRD 3333.001 - Human Relations - Yoo
HRD 4301.060 - Supervision - McWhorter
HRD 4320.060 - Job Analysis and Design - Roberts 
HRD 4370.060 - Undergraduate Internship in HRD - McWhorter
HRD 5307.060 - Measurement & Evaluation in HRD/Technology Education - Yoo
HRD 5308.060 - Needs Assesment in HRD - Cho
HRD 5343.060 - Foundations of Human Resource Development - Roberts
HRD 5347.060 - Performance Consulting - Sun
HRD 5347.701 - Performance Consulting - Sun
HRD 5352.060 - Organization Development - Silberman
HRD 6310.001 - Adv Theoretical Found of Human Resource Development - Allen
HRD 6312.001 - Contemporary Issues in Human Resource Development - Cho
HRD 6355.001 - Multivariate Statistics - Nimon
HRD 6359.001 - Advanced Research Seminar Human Resource Development - Nimon
HRD 6366.001 - Seminar On Org Change and Development - Carpenter
HRD 6377.001 - Leadership Thoery and Practice - Turner

------------------------------------------------------------------

Helpful Links:

About UT Tyler: https://www.uttyler.edu/about/
Fast Facts about UT Tyler: https://www.uttyler.edu/about/facts/
UT Tyler News: https://www.uttyler.edu/news/
Visit UT Tyler: https://www.uttyler.edu/visit/
The Cowan Center: https://www.cowancenter.org/
UT Tyler Academic Calendar: https://www.uttyler.edu/academics/academic-calendar/
UT Tyler Library: https://www.uttyler.edu/library/
Undergraduate Majors: https://www.uttyler.edu/academics/undergraduate-majors/
Graduate Majors: https://www.uttyler.edu/academics/graduate/
MyUTTyler: https://my.uttyler.edu/
